<div id="page">

# AddOn Studio for World of Warcraft now available\!

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
12/14/2007 8:18:01
PM

-----

<div id="content">

[![splashscreen](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/AddOnStudioforWorldofWarcraftnowavailabl_CBD5/splashscreen_thumb.png)](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/AddOnStudioforWorldofWarcraftnowavailabl_CBD5/splashscreen_2.png)

I'm proud to announce that [AddOn Studio for World of
Warcraft](http://www.codeplex.com/WarcraftAddOnStudio) is now available
to download from [CodePlex](http://www.codeplex.com)\!

This was one of those personal projects done in my "free" time, but its
amazing to see how well it turned out, kudos to our extensibility team
and to the amazing folks at EPAM for building a kick-ass IDE
experience\!

 

**Video Demo  
**You can watch a video demo from TechEd Europe with me building a
custom addon that uses Halo 3 game sounds into [World of Warcraft
here](http://video.msn.com/video.aspx?mkt=en-us&vid=ea9cee2c-6a47-4410-8f2c-2fac0731b8a8).

 

## So what's in it?

**Visual Design Surface** - AddOn Studio includes a set of toolbox
controls that you can drag-and-drop onto the designer to visually design
the layout of your addon including popular Visual Studio features like
Snap lines which enable you to visually align
controls.  
![snaplines.png](http://www.codeplex.com/Project/Download/FileDownload.aspx?ProjectName=WarcraftAddOnStudio&DownloadId=23756)  
****

**Lua Code Editor** - AddOn Studio includes a powerful Lua code editing
environment including syntax highlighting, colorization, collapsible
functions, built-in IntelliSense support for Warcraft functions and
events, IntelliSense Code Snippets for common Lua language constructs,
code navigation features like bookmarks and Go To Declaration, and all
IDE settings are
customizable.  
![IntelliSense.png](http://www.codeplex.com/Project/Download/FileDownload.aspx?ProjectName=WarcraftAddOnStudio&DownloadId=23757)  

****

**FrameXML IntelliSense** - AddOn Studio provides built-in support for
FrameXML schema validation for addon developers who want to manually
edit and customize FrameXML
markup.  
![xmlintellisense.png](http://www.codeplex.com/Project/Download/FileDownload.aspx?ProjectName=WarcraftAddOnStudio&DownloadId=23758)  

****

**Auto-Generate Table of Contents** - AddOn Studio also takes the hassle
out of building the Table of Contents (TOC) file by automatically
building it based on what files are in your
project.  
![toceditor.png](http://www.codeplex.com/Project/Download/FileDownload.aspx?ProjectName=WarcraftAddOnStudio&DownloadId=23759)  

****

**Auto-Generate Lua Events** - The Addon Studio property window shows
all of the properties and events available for a Lua control or frame
and enables one-click creation of event handlers like a button\_OnClick
event.  
![frameOnEvent.png](http://www.codeplex.com/Project/Download/FileDownload.aspx?ProjectName=WarcraftAddOnStudio&DownloadId=23760)  
**Other Goodies** - AddOn Studio includes lots more features including
project templates for creating **Ace2** addons, automatic deployment to
your Warcraft directory, Task Window, Error List for FrameXML and Lua
parsing errors, TGA and MP3 file format support, powerful
search-and-replace features, and its fully extensible so that developers
can build additional tools and editors to improve addon development.

 

## More to come

We're not done yet either as we have lots of ideas and I'm sure end
users of the tool will have ideas as to what features to add as well as
other developers who would be interested in building utilities and tools
that can be integrated into AddOn Studio.

</div>

</div>
