<div id="page">

# April Fool's Day Special on Channel9 & Coding4Fun

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
3/31/2006 2:23:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

April Fool's Day is always one of my favorite holidays and having
development skills means you can take pranks to a whole new level. Check
out our [Coding4Fun April Fool's Day
special](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/april-fools/) that
includes Interviews and Demos:

**Interviews** (soon to be on [Channel9](https://channel9.msdn.com/))  
We interviewed several Microsofties on what it's like to work in an
environment where pranksters run wild.

[Mardella Brekke and Dee Dee
Walsh](mms://wm.microsoft.com/ms/msdn/coding4fun/april-fools/AprilFool_DeeDee_and_Mardella.wmv) -
<span style="COLOR: #000000">A crazy assortment of pranks, from adding
flames to cars, to creating web sites to mock co-workers. </span>  

[Larry Osterman and Dave
Norris](mms://wm.microsoft.com/ms/msdn/coding4fun/april-fools/AprilFool_Larry_and_Dave.wmv) -
<span style="COLOR: #000000">Larry and Dave relate old-school Microsoft
pranks, including the fact that Dave started the "Save the blibbet
campaign"\! </span>

<span style="COLOR: #000000">[Paul
Yuknewicz](mms://wm.microsoft.com/ms/msdn/coding4fun/april-fools/AprilFool_Paul.wmv)  
<span style="COLOR: #000000">Paul talks about hazing new recruits and
office decorations</span></span>

<span style="COLOR: #000000"><span style="COLOR: #000000">[Habib
Heydarian and Anson
Horton](mms://wm.microsoft.com/ms/msdn/coding4fun/april-fools/AprilFool_Habib_and_Anson.wmv)  
<span style="COLOR: #000000">[Anson](/ansonh) and [Habib](/habibh) talk
about their April Fool's bogus spec for extending Edit & Continue for
the Web months while Visual Studio 2005 is in lock down
mode.  </span> </span></span>

<span style="COLOR: #000000"><span style="COLOR: #000000">**Demos &
Code**</span></span>

[When AutoCorrect Goes
Bad](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/april-fools/autocorrect/default.aspx) -
How you can automate Word's AutoCorrect for both good and bad (includes
video demo)  
  
[Where did that sound come
from?](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/april-fools/sound/default.aspx) -
Ever wondered how to programatically change your system sounds? Ever
wanted to do so to mess with friends? Learn how (includes video demo) 

[Randomly Opening CD
Tray](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/april-fools/cdtray/default.aspx) -
Jeff Key shows us the magic of randomly opening CD drive through the
magic of Pinvoke. Sweet :)  
  
[Persistent Error
Messages](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/april-fools/errormessages/default.aspx) -
Jacqueline shows the undying and continually scarier messages from the
app that won't die.

[Shattering Screen
Saver\!](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/april-fools/screensaver/default.aspx)  
<span style="COLOR: #000000">The ZMan shows how to capture your desktop
screen image then have it break into pieces. Visually beautiful
:)</span>

</div>

</div>
