<div id="page">

# Candy Corn is \*the worst\* Halloween candy

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
10/29/2004 10:06:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

![](http://www.jellybeans4u.com/gif.files/candycorn.jpeg)

In our team meeting this week, [Jay Roxe](http://blogs.msdn.com/jroxe/),
the beloved VB Product Manager was nice enough to bring in some
Halloween candy. But alas poor Jay brought what is, in
<span class="underline">*my opinion*</span>, the absolute worst
Halloween candy there is - [candy
corn](http://www.brachs.com/products/product.asp?base_code=070). The
nice and well meaning jesture met the wraith of me, BrianKel, and
Rick and led to a discussion of what the worst Halloween candy of all
time is. Rick even called the 800 number on the back of the Candy Corn
wrapper to find out how they stay in business. Louis Black gives his
enlightened candy corn theory in
[Unleashed](http://www.dvdverdict.com/printer/lewisblackunleashed.php)
that "*all of the candy corn that was ever made was made in 1911*" and
people have just been reusing the same crappy candy year-after-year.

 Thanks to the power of Google, I've discovered that [I am not
alone](http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&lr=&q=i+hate+candy+corn) in my
hatred of candy corn. [Hand Carved Magazine](http://hcmagazine.com/) has
a [poll of the worst Halloween
treat](http://hcmagazine.com/magazine.cfm/interactive/messageboard/1,6,0008320,04.html),
and I was delighted to see that people **prefer** "circus peanuts" and
"severed body parts" to candy corn. In the poll comments,
terremoto\* sums up my opinion quite bluntly: *man, i can eat raisins,
and i can fool myself into eating a circus peanut, but \[religious
reference\], i \[expletive\] hate candy corn, and even though halloween
and candy corn only come once a year, that whole year isn't long enough
for me to forget how nasty that crap is.*

Is Candy Corn the biggest culinary joke ever played on an clueless
public? Is there anything worse then getting candy corn for
Halloween?\!\!

\* aside: terremoto is spanish for earthquake

</div>

</div>
