<div id="page">

# Cha-Cha-Changes

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
12/16/2005 3:08:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

At Microsoft, the only constant is change...

It's been a wild ride as the C\# Product Manager, but I'm officially
changing jobs and to become the Lead Product Manager for the [Visual
Studio Express product
line](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/). Leaving C\# was a
hard decision, especially because IMNSHO, the C\# team is one of the
best teams in the company and with C\# 3.0 the future of C\# is bright
(LINQ == LOVE)\! So why switch jobs? Well that's simple, Visual Studio
Express is a great product and with dedicated product management
resources, we can really take it to the next level\! Before my new job
was created, Visual Studio Express didn't have any dedicated Product
Management headcount. Instead it was something that [Brian
Keller](http://blogs.msdn.com/briankel/) and I did because we knew
Express would be a hit and because we were both passionate about the
product. Now, we'll actually have a dedicated team for Visual Studio
Express :)  

It's been a wild ride in the close to two years I've been the C\#
Product Manager. Here are just some of my favorite moments I've blogged
about:

  - [MSDN Search adds support for the "\#"
    symbol](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2003/07/25/51777.aspx)
  - [.NET vs J2EE
    Reloaded](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2003/07/30/51787.aspx)
  - [C\# Mascot
    retires](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/01/29/64429.aspx)
  - [C\# on Slashdot
    x2](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/02/10/71065.aspx)
  - [Visual Studio 2005 =
    "Whidbey"](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/03/13/89006.aspx)
  - [Netcraft: ASP.NET surpasses
    JSP](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/03/24/95547.aspx)
  - [C\# and FCLC
    Compliance](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/04/01/105653.aspx) 
  - [Sun and Microsoft to work
    together](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/04/02/106404.aspx)
  - [.NET beats J2EE for development work in
    2004](/danielfe/archive/2004/05/12/130863.aspx)
  - [Visual Studio Team System
    Announced](/danielfe/archive/2004/06/06/149858.aspx)
  - [Java Developer Resource Center is
    Live\!](/danielfe/archive/2004/06/07/150178.aspx)
  - [Microsoft Announces new Express
    Products\!\!](/danielfe/archive/2004/06/29/168417.aspx)
  - [Show me some E\&C\!\!](/danielfe/archive/2004/10/20/245443.aspx)
  - [Microsoft products using the .NET
    Framework](/danielfe/archive/2004/11/02/251254.aspx)
  - [SD Times: C\# Gets
    Sharper](/danielfe/archive/2004/12/06/276135.aspx)
  - [Giving Back To The Hobbyist
    Community](/danielfe/archive/2005/04/17/409116.aspx)
  - [Announced at PDC: The LINQ
    Project](/danielfe/archive/2005/09/13/464904.aspx)
  - [Visual Studio 2005
    Released](/danielfe/archive/2005/10/27/485677.aspx)
  - [Announcing the release of Visual Studio 2005 Express
    Editions](/danielfe/archive/2005/11/07/489897.aspx)**  
    **

**The Microsoft's not using Managed Code Myth**  
One of the biggest challenges in my old job was that customers didn't
think Microsoft was using managed code. Well, the truth is that we have
a good amount of managed code in the three years that the .NET Framework
has been released including [operating systems, client tools, Web
properties, and Intranet
applications](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/11/02/251254.aspx). For
those of you that refuse to believe, here's an estimate of the lines of
managed code in Microsoft applications that I got permission to blog
about:

  - Visual Studio 2005: 7.5 million lines
  - SQL Server 2005: 3 million lines
  - BizTalk Server: 2 million lines
  - Visual Studio Team System: 1.7 million lines
  - Windows Presentation Foundation: 900K lines
  - Windows Sharepoint Services: 750K lines
  - Expression Interactive Designer: 250K lines  
  - Sharepoint Portal Server: 200K lines
  - Content Management Server: 100K lines

Most importantly I wanted to thank the members of the C\# community
including RDs, MVPs, Codewise partners, all six of my blog readers and
everyone else I'm forgetting for your help and constructive feedback
over the years.

If any of you are interested in becoming a product manager for C\#, we
are of course hiring :)

</div>

</div>
