<div id="page">

# Clarifications for MacDork

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
6/14/2005 3:52:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

\[Please read my
[Disclaimer](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/articles/106589.aspx)\]

Dear MacDork,

[You recently
blogged](http://www.macdork.com/index.php/2005/06/06/visual-studio-200x/)
about Visual Studio 2005 quoting an [article by Paul
Krill](http://www.infoworld.com/article/05/06/06/23NNvisualstudio_1.html) about
how the VS 2005 release date was going to be next year (hence the Visual
Studio 200X name of your entry) and about the top 10 features in Visual
Studio. To clarify Visual Studio 2005 \*is\* going to launch the week of
November 8th. To be fair, you couldn't have known this as it wasn't
announced until the day <span class="underline">after</span> you blogged
about it, but just thought you'd like to know.

Also, the features highlighted in the [Paul Krill
article](http://www.infoworld.com/article/05/06/06/23NNvisualstudio_1.html)
are not what \***Microsoft\*** considers the best features of Visual
Studio. Instead, they are the top requested fixes or suggestions that
**\*customers\*** voted on in the [MSDN Product Feedback
Center](http://msdn.microsoft.com/feedback/). On the Product Feedback
center customers can vote on how important a bug/suggestion is and
that's how we determine what the top 10 customer requested features are.
So to your response (below) about how we shouldn't lead with new icons,
\*we\* didn't decide to make new icons the \#1 request on the Product
Feedback Center, **our customers did.**

1.  *The user-driven, top-10 improvement list begins with the ability to
    deploy updated and new icon sets. This feature enables  access to
    icons that can be distributed with applications. This makes it
    easier for developers to focus on code, said Brian  Keller, a
    Microsoft product manager on the Visual Studio team. **(You sure you
    wanna lead off w/ “deploy updated … icon sets”?  I mean, you ARE
    Microsoft…. can’t you come up w/ something a \*little\* more
    impressive than that?)***

Now before you say *"Everything I’ve heard (perhaps anecdotally) about
.Net points to a hodge-podge of technologies"* why don't you try it out
for yourself? No Seriously. Since you sound like a Web developer given
your astuteness with cross-browser issues when describing the other
features, how about you download and try [Visual Web Developer 2005
Express Edition](http://lab.msdn.microsoft.com/express/vwd/default.aspx)
and take the [VWD Guided Tour](http://beta.asp.net/guidedtour/). While
VWD isn't designed for enterprise developers (you'll find architecture
tools, unit and load testing in Visual Studio Team System [which you can
order for free from here and we'll even pay
S\&H](https://www.getthebetas.com/profile.aspx)) you can still take it
for a spin and honestly evaluate what it's like to develop applications
using Visual Studio and the .NET Framework. At least keep an open mind
about our technology - [Rick
Ross](http://jroller.com/page/rickross/) got a chance to look at what
we're doing first hand [when he came to
Redmond](http://www.javalobby.org/members-only/summit/mts.pdf) and had
some positive things to say:

*First, ASP.NET 2.0 is truly impressive. It drives the state of the art
forward with a rich set of high-level modular components for creating
and deploying web applications. Most of us have hassled with creating
yet another member registration or login block in a web application, but
ASP.NET 2.0 makes those hassles a thing of the past. You can tell that
Microsoft sets its product development priorities by listening to where
its customers feel pain. Of course, I have no idea how much pain the
customers will feel in their bank accounts to have this power, but the
technology is simply outstanding.* *Second, Visual Studio is a
powerhouse that makes the other Microsoft products possible, and the
2005 version (also called "Whidbey") has a ton of new features that make
.NET development easy and fast.*

Now Rick isn't leaving the Java world anytime soon, but he's a developer
first and he seems willing to at least hear what we have to offer and
encourages others to be open-minded: *"I am encouraging mutual respect
and a dialogue to keep the possibility for progress alive. Frozen hatred
is not in the best interests of the Java developer community."..."I want
it to be explicitly clear that I am NOT advocating any Java developer to
abandon Java. I am only saying that we should consider, as a community,
treating our peer developers in the Microsoft world and elsewhere with
more respect and open-mindedness.*

Try it out and [send us \*your\*
feedback](http://msdn.microsoft.com/feedback/), it might even make it
into Paul's next article...

</div>

</div>
