<div id="page">

# coolest.job.ever - Express Product Manager

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
12/16/2005 5:30:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

**\*\*Edit**: This position is still open and is now listed on
[microsoft.com/careers/](http://www.microsoft.com/careers/). You can
find it by searching for Job Code: 151967.

Who says Microsoft doesn't have fun? Well, [In my new
position](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2005/12/16/504847.aspx)
I'm currently hiring for what can only be described as the **coolest job
ever**. Read below for all the details:

**Technical Product Manager - Visual Studio Express**

<span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Are you looking for the coolest job
you’ll ever have? Do you love to code for fun? Do you look for ways to
be creative with technology?
<span style="mso-spacerun: yes"> </span>Would you love a job where you
get paid to play with hardware like X10 controls, GPS devices, and
digital cameras? Are you interested in game development and making
Visual Studio Express a great tool for beginning game
developers?<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">  </span>Are you excited by
the prospect of helping make the lives of the over 18 million
non-professional developers easier? Are you passionate about helping
absolute beginners learn the basics of programming? Do you have big,
bold ideas for how to make Visual Studio Express the coolest developer
tool on the planet? </span>

<span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

<span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Join one of the most exciting teams at
Microsoft and drive the success of a high-profile product line in an
established, proven organization. As a technical product manager for
Visual Studio Express, you will take ownership of product planning,
product and technical marketing, partner engagement, and community
outreach programs.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes"> 
</span>Responsibilities include but are not limited to:</span>

<span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Driving all aspects of product
    management for the Visual Studio Express product line</span>
  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Helping plan the “Orcas” release of
    Visual Studio Express</span>
  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Driving customer satisfaction with
    Visual Studio Express</span>
  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Building crystal clear value
    propositions for your customer segements and finding creative ways
    of articulating them</span>
  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Working with vendors to make your
    jaw-dropping, buzz-worthy content ideas come to life</span>
  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Creating new and supporting
    existing hobbyist developer communities through partners like Valve
    software (makers of Half Life 2), Lego, Amazon, eBay, and
    more</span>
  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Driving internal evangelism for
    non-professional developers with groups like Windows Media Center,
    Live.com, Microsoft Game Studios, Virtual Earth, MSN, and
    more</span>
  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Cross-group coordination with teams
    including the Visual Studio product team, SQL Server Express
    marketing, academic marketing, worldwide subsidiary marketing
    managers, and MSDN </span>
  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Assisting with all launch and
    marketing activities for Visual Studio Express </span>
  - <span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Being a rock star presenter that is
    able to demo the product on stage with senior executives
    worldwide</span>

<span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

<span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial">This role includes driving out tactical
marketing initiatives as well as developing visionary strategic plans.
Ideal candidates must have development experience and have a strong
passion for non-professional development, and an ability to think
out-of-the-box for creative ways to appeal to the non-traditional
developer community. In addition, successful candidates must be
creative, be able to learn new technologies quickly, be an exceptional
customer advocate and have excellent communication skills,. The
candidate must also be highly motivated, hard-working, self-sufficient,
and be able to operate effectively without close supervision.
Familiarity with the developer market segment and a BA/BS degree in a
technical field of study is preferred. </span>

<span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span> 

<span style="FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

**\* \* \***

More information:

  - [Visual Studio Express Home](http://msdn.microsoft.com/express)
  - [Coding4Fun](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/) 

If you're interested, [contact me with the subject: "Cool
Job"](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/contact.aspx)

</div>

</div>
