<div id="page">

# Dallas hotels, thank you David Weller and Gaming sites

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
5/31/2003 3:01:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

Thanks [David](http://www.inkblog.com/2003/05/29.html). I checked into
the Hyatt Regency last night only to realize, as David had, that the
Hyatt Regency is \*very\* low tech with no high speed internet access,
except for their business center which charges $10/hour and isn't open
24 hours a day.  I was planning on calling up all the local hotels to
see if they had high-speed net access, when I came across David's post.
So I officially checked into the [Adam's
Mark](http://www.adamsmark.com/index.asp) hotel today which is cheaper
(even if you include the costs of net access), has more convenient
access to the parking garage, late night room service, and best of all,
the lobby has two stands chock full of cookies, brownies and lemonade as
a welcome to all TechEd attendees, and by sheer coincidence, David was
in the lobby so we chatted for a bit.  Since I mentioned David, I should
also thank him for lending me his
[desktop](http://www.inkblog.com/2003/05/20.html) workhorse for last
month's Frag party.  The reason I needed David's machine is that I
damaged mine while driving to the party.  While on 520, the bridge that
connects the west side (Seattle) to the east side (Redmond/Bellevue) I
had to slam the brakes and my server slammed forward into my car (Always
buckle up your machines).  The machine wouldn't boot at all afterwards,
even after I opened her up to make sure nothing was loose.  After
inspecting the machine internals me and the "Mrs." discovered that the
CPU's heat sink had fallen off and the snap that holds it in place is
also broken.  I'll have to check if my machine's still under warranty,
but since I was considering buying a machine just for fragging, David,
who had just bought his machine, sent me a spreadsheet with parts from
[Google Gear](http://www.googlegear.com/jsp/Home.jsp) and the whole
machine will probably run me about $1,200. Excellent.  While we're on
the topic of gaming, you can find local places to frag at
[LanParty](http://www.lanparty.com), register your [XBL
gamertag](http://www.gamertagdatabase.com), and since it just passed,
check out the [GameSpy
Awards](http://www.gamespy.com/e32003/preview/pc/1001750/) for the best
of E3.

</div>

</div>
