<div id="page">

# Developer DJs - Is the Participation Era going to hit the dance floor next?

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
2/26/2007 5:59:46 PM

-----

<div id="content">

No, this isn't about [coding for live](http://dev.live.com), but rather
a relatively new movement called [Live
coding](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Live_coding) where DJs both [mix
and code during a live
performance](http://www.wired.com/news/technology/0,71248-0.html?tw=wn_index_1).
As regular blog readers know, I'm a fan of Developer DJ's like [DJ
Bolivia](http://www.djbolivia.ca/) who has some [great mixes for when
you're
coding.](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2006/03/13/550975.aspx)

There's even a concurrent programming language, ChucK, for [real-time
audio synthesis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ChucK).

**** 

**Live Media Stream Editing  
**I'd love to see this taken to the next level where a DJ could easily
edit/manipulate a live video stream of interesting images and video, say
using XAML in real-time and have the UI actually change and react to the
current tempo/bass of the music.

So what the hell does this mean for your regular night out clubbing?

**The Participation Era and the Dance Floor  
**I'd also love to see a way where both the music and media stream
editing can change and react based on users behavior. While DJs do a
great job of understanding and buiding the general vibe of a club, the
concept of particpation in both music and media. Imagine a dance club
with heat maps, pressure and motion sensors that can react and change
the music based on real-time interaction with the crowd. All you have to
do is dance and the software will recognize the mood of the dance club.
Second, imagine being able to send real-time pictures to that live video
stream at any time and have the DJ remix your experience live...

Too geeky? Technology for the future? maybe, but becoming a co-DJ
without even knowing it (no hardware, just a specially designed dance
floor) is an interesting if not amusing possibility

</div>

</div>
