<div id="page">

# E3 Reactions on the Web

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
5/18/2006 4:20:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

I’ve been on vacation but been totally fascinated by the blogosphere
news on [E3](http://www.e3expo.com/default.aspx), but it sounds like
Nintendo and Microsoft did well at the show, but Sony seemed to have
bombed. The Inside Microsoft blog had a post “[Reaction to Sony @
E3…Uh…Not
Great](http://microsoft.blognewschannel.com/index.php/archives/2006/05/10/reaction-to-sony-e3-uh-not-great/)”
with lots of links to stories talking about how Sony bungled E3 during
their launch year. Joystiq even had a post [asking 8,876 readers who was
the keynote master at
E3](http://www.joystiq.com/2006/05/09/poll-who-was-the-key-note-master/).
The results?

  - 
    
    <div>
    
    Nintendo Wii - 66%
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div>
    
    Microsoft Xbox 360 - 26%
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div>
    
    Sony Playstation 3 – 8%
    
    </div>

While Nintendo is the clear winner here, what’s shocking is that only 8%
of people thought Sony had the best keynote. It seems like the Sony
complaints fall into (1) Price ($600), (2) Graphics that are the same or
marginally better then an Xbox 360, (3) Controller rip-off from
Nintendo.

I have to give props to Nintendo, there is a real buzz about the Wii now
and they really understand the market. The controller they were showing
seems like lots of fun and easy to use and hearing about the lines up to
six hours long to play games is definitely going to boost the Wii buzz
machine. What’s interesting is that many dismissed Nintendo as an also
ran. They redefined themselves by changing their approach (gaming
through motion controllers) and target audience (casual, beginner
gamers). One key lesson I’ve learned in Express is that you need to take
a holistic view of your customer segment. In other words, Nintendo knows
that there are a lot of non-uber gamers and its decided to expand its
product into that area and redefine what it means to be a gamer. The
market opportunity for casual gamers is huge, and while Microsoft and
Sony fight for how draws the most pixels, Nintendo jumps on the ignored
or underserved audience. It’s a smart move, especially with the
statistics that show lots of female gamers for online gaming sites like
MSN Zone or Yahoo. Microsoft didn’t do too bad either, the Grand Theft
Auto announcement was a coup and having Live expand onto PC gaming is
awesome\! As a Warcraft player, my imagination starts thinking about
having Live chat in World of Warcraft (party/raid based) so you wouldn’t
need TeamSpeak or Ventrillo. Or having WOW plug into achievements if you
reach different PVP ranks so everyone will know how well you can gank
cloth-wearers. I also have to give credit to Peter Moore for getting the
sound byte out that you can buy an Xbox 360 and a Nintendo Wii for the
price of a Playstation. Nice…

That being said, I wouldn’t count Sony out. If anything, this is a big
lesson learned and will make them redouble their efforts for launch and
beyond. I’m sure they’ll be more surprises coming out of these three
later this year.

</div>

</div>
