<div id="page">

# Exhaustion

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
4/14/2004 8:07:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

**Exhaustion**  
I'm physically exhausted from work and continuous sleep
deprivation...you know it's bad when you hit 40 hours a week in three
days (including Sunday).  This job isn't a sprint, it's a marathon, and
I'm the sucker looking for the next runner to give the baton to, and I'm
barefoot, running on hot coals, wearing an itchy wool sweater, and
panting like a pre-teen at an NSync concert. You probably want to know
what's keeping me up at night..there are a bunch of upcoming exec
reviews for VS '05 and they require a tremendous amount of work and
coordination. I have a backlog of Pri 1 tasks I simply don't have time
to do, and I only blog to escape the horror of my reality. 

**Fighting for what you believe in**  
My other problem is that I passionately believe in a product decision
and I'm “*going to the mat*” as [Joe](http://blogs.msdn.com/joen/) would
say to try and defend it.  It's a losing battle right now and I don't
think I'll be able to stop the train (it'll run right over me), but I
have to try.  At Microsoft you definitely need to pick your battles,
because you can't have \*everything\*.  Sometimes though, you just need
to fight a fight because it's what you believe in, no matter how badly
the odds are stacked against you. That's me, right now, 8:02PM PST in my
office, no dinner, no sleep and over 400 pages of PowerPoint slide decks
in front of me.  Hopefully this post will make sense sometime at the end
of this year, but I'll let you know if I'm even standing next Friday :).

In the chaos of discussing how busy we were today,
[Goldfarb](http://blogs.msdn.com/bgold/) made me cackle out loud with
this quote “*I need to S+ a 1:1 with God to talk about extending the
work day*”. Maybe you have to work @ MS, but I thought that was
hilarious, but then again it's probably just sleep deprivation. 

 

</div>

</div>
