<div id="page">

# Fractured Arm

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
9/9/2004 11:43:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

I haven't been blogging lately, mainly because I'm busy and because I
fractured my arm. It happened about two weeks ago while playing roller
hockey. I was going full speed from left to right and only had the
goalie to beat. The goalie jumped out of the net, sending me airborn and
I landed on the flat of my left hand. Both me and the puck had gotten
past the goalie and the puck was sitting about a foot away from an empty
net, but I couldn't move my left arm to shovel the puck into the net. A
defenseman came and cleared the puck and I went to the bench holding my
arm. After the scorekeeper (a goalie himself) convinced me to go to the
hospital, I changed gear, drove home (one-handed with a stick-shift
Wrangler), showered (hockey smell takes on a life of its own) and had
the Mrs. take me to the hospital at around 11:30pm. It turns out that
Tuesday nights are a busy night in the ER and having gone to \*the\*
trauma hospital in the Seattle Metro area so car accidents and others
less fortunate were medivac'd in throughout the night. I got several
x-rays and was given morphine as they had to "manipulate" (aka move in
unbelievably painful ways) my arm to see if I needed to be sent to
surgery. Even though I was in a good amount of pain, I quickly
realized I have it pretty good when the person next to me can barely
walk because of bad chest pains or another who is paralyzed from the
waist down having been shot five times in the first hour after arriving
on a "peace keeping" mission to distribute food in Mogadishu for [her
Majesty's Royal
Marines](http://www.royal-marines.mod.uk/static/pages/141.html) (think
[Black Hawk Down](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0265086/)). Five+ hours
later I was released with a fractured radius and was told they would
need to check whether or not I would need surgery the following week.
Luckily I didn't. The worst part is that I had to give a talk the very
next day at 10am and all of my demos are how Visual Studio makes writing
code easier, I had to change them in the five hours before my demo. I
changed them, went through my script and "slept" for about two hours and
warned the audience that I was given the presentation on "drugs" to much
laughter. All-in-all, my talk went well. I've been in physical therapy
quite a bit, and I'm healing fine and most importantly for my job, I'm
typing with two hands. I'm in a sling for two months, but I'll be back
on skates soon therafter. In the meantime, I may not be blogging as
often as I would like (my blog queue is still way high) but this is
mainly because I have a \*huge\* workload write now and I've signed up
for even more work this fiscal year. \*Sigh\*.

 

</div>

</div>
