<div id="page">

# Giving Back To The Hobbyist Community

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
4/18/2005 1:43:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

![](http://www.thocp.net/hardware/pictures/altairtape.gif)  
*"The MITS Altair inspired a new generation of technology enthusiasts,
including **Bill Gates and Paul Allen, who were among the first of these
early hobbyists** to realize that the key to the future of personal
computing lay in the unlimited potential of software." -
[Source](http://www.thocp.net/companies/microsoft/microsoft_company.htm)*

Back in 1975, Microsoft started out as **\*the\*** hobbyist company for
a nascient software industry. While many things have changed since then,
we always had a special place in our hearts for hobbyists. In 2005,
we're going to make sure to give a lot of love back to our true roots -
the  hobbyist community.

**Announcing the Coding4Fun Web Site on MSDN**

The Coding4Fun Web site is dedicated to, well, coding for fun. We found
our favorite writers and bloggers and asked them to write about cool
stuff their passionate about. Below is the first set of articles we've
launched the site with. There's a lot more and we think you'll really,
really like what we have coming :)

  
Peter Bernhardt is writing the "XML for Fun" column and shows how easy
it is to use [Amazon's XML Web
services](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/xmlforfun/amazonWS/default.aspx).  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/images/xml/amazonWS/image001.jpg)

Sean Campbell from 3Leaf is writing the "In the Box" column and walks
through creating a [basic network
utility](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/inthebox/netutils/default.aspx).  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/images/inthebox/netutils/tweak_1.jpg)

Bill Evjen walks you through [creating your own personal Web
site](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/webcoder/intropws/default.aspx)
with the Personal Web Site Starter Kit.  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/en-us/dnaspp/html/pws15.gif)

Scott Hanselman kicks off his "Some Assembly Required" column by showing
how to program a system tray application and  LED display to show
[What's Playing in Windows Media
Player](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/someassemblyrequired/external_led/default.aspx).  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/images/some_assembly_required/what's_playing/image004.jpg)

Jeff Key starts his Cool Applications column with a [beautiful System
Monitor](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/coolapplications/sysmonitor/default.aspx) to
monitor the Event Log, disk space, network availability, and
more.  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/images/coolApps/SysMonitor/image001.jpg)

Derek Piersen kicks off his multi-part [Beginner Game Development
series](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/gamedevelopment/beginning/default.aspx)
by walking through the basics of game development using Managed DirectX.
The Game Development series walks you through step-by-step in creating a
fully-fledged game. Very
cool.  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/images/gameDev/beginning/image001.jpg)

**We Want Your Feedback\!  
**A lot more, really, really cool plans. We have ideas, our writers have
ideas, but more importantly **we want to here your ideas**. What can we
do to give back to the hobbyist community? How can we get people excited
about programming cool stuff? Post your comments or email your ideas to
<code4fun@microsoft.com>.

 

**Big Thank You's  
**I first want to thank our amazing writers who have totally exceeded my
expectations. This site's going to rock\! I also want to thank the good
folks at MSDN who gave us a home and helped this labor of love project
happen. Big thanks to Kent Sharkey, John Serna, Chris Dahl, Brian
Johnson, the original Coding4Fun MDSN author, Duncan MacKenzie and of
course Brian Keller who pulled one too many all-nighters to get this
site up and running.

 

 

</div>

</div>
