<div id="page">

# Great tech discussion

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
8/3/2003 10:06:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

As
[Eric](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/ericgu/PermaLink.aspx/41d80e18-0661-491e-a54c-51a75fb77d13)
points out, on Wednesday [Bruce Eckel](http://mindview.net/WebLog) and
[Bill Venners](http://www.artima.com/weblogs/index.jsp?blogger=bv) came
on campus to talk to members of the C\# team.  They interviewed
[Anders](http://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anders_Hejlsberg) for a recently
published [article](http://www.artima.com/intv/csdes.html) (Bill) as
well as a series of interviews with industry luminaries (Bruce) that
will be made available on CD-ROM.  I'm hoping to get the audio from the
interview and place it on [MSDN](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vcsharp/) for
anyone interested. 

I should also now mention how cool it is to work with the C\# team, and
how it can be difficult at times to not spontaneously avert my eyes,
bow, and start chanting "I'm not worthy, I'm not worthy" during
meetings.     
Anders isn't what I would've expected...he's a really nice guy, he's
funny, he's not socially awkward (a rarity for engineers), he's well
versed in a variety of topics, and he's someone that can comfortably
present to either a room full of CEO's or hardcore engineers. He
basically rocks, and I'm glad he works for MS and not our competitors :)

As a newbie to the team, it was enlightening to hear the ins-and-outs of
the language design process and the choices the team had to make when
first designing C\#.  I noticed some general themes that arose during
the language design process discussion, like simplicity, elegance,
and actual value and I then became cognizant of just how obvious they
are in the language, and also how difficult making those design
decisions must be.  You too can hear all about, and I'll blog with a
link to the audio once its on MSDN. 

</div>

</div>
