<div id="page">

# Halo, H4x0rs, and the life of a Blogosphere story

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
6/11/2003 3:22:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

Semi-random stream of consciousness...

**Halo**

[EricGu](http://www.gotdotnet.com/team/csharp/team/ericgu/default.aspx)
turned me onto [Red vs. Blue](http://www.redvsblue.com) while we were at
the speaker lounge at TechEd and I started having uncontrollable fits of
laughter in what *was* a quiet room.  They're making 22 episodes, so
make sure to donate to the cause.  If you're a Halo fan this is an
absolute must see.  It's a movie filmed entirely inside of Halo with a
well written and executed storyline.  One of the best things I've seen
on the net in a while\!  

**H4x0rs**

[Insecure](http://www.insecure.org) recently polled a NMap (of Matrix2
fame) mailing list to see what they list members thought were the Top
[75 security tools](http://www.insecure.org/tools.html), excluding NMap
of course.  There are quite a bit of tools I wasn't familiar with, but I
thought I would pass this along as a good addition to your bookmarks for
security tools.

**Life of Blogosphere stories**

* *Interesting
[read](http://www.microdoc-news.info/blogger/2003/05/20.html#a636) on
the circle of life and evolution of blog postings, but the sample size
does seem a bit small for accurate scientific study. In Microdoc's own
words "*Through a study of 45 blogosphere stories, Microdoc News has
developed a picture of how a blogosphere story gets started, how that
story develops and then how it then comes to an end. While each
blogosphere story has its own pattern of development, the similarities
between one story and another is intriguingly similar. The smallest
blogosphere stories can have as few as fifteen bloggers, the average
story has between 40 and 60 bloggers, while the largest one to date had
about 285 bloggers involved. A blogosphere story can be as small as 180
posts in total, while the largest we studied has numbered 7,540 posts in
total." *The even post a pretty picture to explain the connections
between blog stories. I'm not sure what it means, but it looks like a
complex version of the classic "flea flicker" call.  
![](http://microdoc-news.info/images/blogospherestory.png)

</div>

</div>
