<div id="page">

# Home Networking

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
5/29/2003 1:27:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

I somehow managed to have both a relaxing and busy Memorial day weekend
as my "Mrs." was in town and she helped me finish unpacking all of my
junk.  I also finally got around to setting up my wireless network.  My
apartment complex has a T1 line which residents access through a DSL
modem and it only costs $50\! Sadly, you can't host sites, but at least
there are tools like [Dynamic DNS](http://www.dyndns.com/) and
[No-IP](http://www.no-ip.com/) for those of you using DHCP through a
Cable modem or DSL. For those of you looking to set this up at home,
here's my current setup - I use a Microsoft Brand [MN-500 Wireless
Router](http://www.microsoft.com/hardware/broadbandnetworking/wirelessbasestation.aspx)
. This has built in Network Address Translation so while the router
receives a single IP address from my ISP, internally I can hook up as
many machines as I want to the network using a Class C subnet.  You can
also setup port forwarding for other services you might want to use like
FTP, WWW, SMTP, POP3, Quake etc. Other cool features include the ability
to "backup" your config, block pings, an easy-to-use admin page and it
even has a built-in firewall. Not bad for a product that costs \<$100.

**But,** the home networking madness doesn't stop there, I also use a
Linksys [WET11
Bridge](http://www.linksys.com/products/product.asp?prid=432&grid=)
which lets me have a dynamic IP address from my Wireless access point to
my living room. So that 100' CAT-5 cable snaking from the office is gone
and the "Mrs." is happy :) \<br\>

If you're having problems connecting your Xbox using the WET11 bridge, I
stumbled on [this page](http://linksys.com/splash/wetxbox.asp) on the
Linksys web site which explains step-by-step how to configure the bridge
for playing Xbox Live. Since we're on the topic of 802.11, I thought I
would share some of my favorite wireless sights:

  - [802.11 Hotspots](http://80211hotspots.com/) - Find wireless
    connections anywhere in the **world**.
  - [Net Stumbler](http://www.netstumbler.com) - This site has a good
    shop for all your wireless networking gear needs (although it
    doesn't have the MN-500), and it's also where you can download
    netstumbler, one of my favorite apps for finding wireless networks,
    which now even includes an add-in for mapping hotspots using
    MapPoint. The nice thing about NetStumbler is that it searches
    multiple channels and not just your default wireless card
    channels.  
  - [Warchalking](http://www.warchalking.org/) - When you get your
    wireless network up and running, don't forget how you can covertly
    notify those of us in the wireless digerati.
  - [Bandwidth Speed Test](http://tech.msn.com/internet/speedtest.asp) -
    Once you have your connection up and running, see how fast your
    network \*really\* works. My bandwidth report on my home network was
    \~700Kbps which I thought was good until I just now ran this same
    test at work and got a stunning ***2,386 kbps*** of real throughput
    through my wireless (WEP-enabled) connection\!\!  

That's all for now, enjoy,

\-Dan

### 

</div>

</div>
