<div id="page">

# Is your son a hacker \[satire\]?

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
12/3/2003 2:05:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

**This is hilarious**  
<http://www.adequacy.org/public/stories/2001.12.2.42056.2147.html>Â 

Some choice quotes for knowing whether your son is a hacker:

***2. Are you finding programs on your computer that you don't remember
installing?***

*Your son will probably try to install some hacker software. He may
attempt to conceal the presence of the software in some way, but you can
usually find any new programs by reading through the programs listed
under "Install/Remove Programs" in your* [*control
panel*](http://members.aol.com/motwn/page1.htm)*. Popular hacker
software includes "Comet Cursor", "Bonzi Buddy" and "Flash".*

***6. Does your son use Quake?***

*Quake is an online virtual reality used by hackers. It is a popular
meeting place and training ground, where they discuss hacking and train
in the use of various firearms. Many hackers develop anti-social
tendencies due to the use of this virtual world, and it may cause
erratic behaviour at home and at school.*

*If your son is using Quake, you should make hime understand that this
is not acceptable to you. You should ensure all the firearms in your
house are carefully locked away, and have* *trigger locks* *installed.
You should also bring your concerns to the attention of his school*

***8. Is your son obsessed with "Lunix"?***

[*BSD*](http://www.bsd.org)*,* [*Lunix*](http://www.lunix.com)*,*
[*Debian*](http://www.debian.org) *and*
[*Mandrake*](http://www.mandrake.com) *are all versions of an* [*illegal
hacker operation system*](http://www.lunix.com)*, invented by a*
[*Soviet computer hacker*](http://www.goldeneye.com/julian/boris.html)
*named Linyos Torovoltos, before the Russians lost the Cold War. It is
based on a program called "*[*xenix*](http://www.xenix.org)*", which was
written by* [*Microsoft*](http://www.microsoft.com) *for the* [*US
government*](http://www.usflag.org)*. These programs are used by hackers
to break into other people's computer systems to steal credit card
numbers. They may also be used to break into people's stereos to steal
their music, using the "mp3" program. Torovoltos is a notorious hacker,
responsible for writing many hacker programs, such as "telnet", which is
used by hackers to connect to machines on the internet without using a*
[*telephone*](http://www.att.net)*.*

*Your son may try to install "*[*lunix*](http://www.lunix.com)*" on your
hard drive. If he is careful, you may not notice its presence, however,*
[*lunix*](http://www.lunix.com) *is a capricious beast, and if handled
incorrectly, your son may damage your computer, and even break it
completely by deleting Windows, at which point you will have to have
your computer repaired by a* [*professional*](../users/70/index.html)*.*

*If you see the word "LILO" during your windows startup (just after you
turn the machine on), your son has installed*
[*lunix*](http://www.lunix.com)*. In order to get rid of it, you will
have to send your computer back to the manufacturer, and have them fit a
new hard drive.* [*Lunix*](http://www.lunix.com) *is extremely dangerous
software, and cannot be removed without destroying part of your hard
disk surface.*

</div>

</div>
