<div id="page">

# Join the Visual Studio Engineer-to-Engineer Program

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
3/15/2006 12:24:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 12pt">Karl Melder and team have created another
mechanism for you to give feedback on Visual Studio with the E2E
Connection Program. Here's the details, but if you want to help
influence the next version of Visual Studio, sign up\!</span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 12pt">\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*</span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 12pt">You can actively influence and shape the
next version of Microsoft Visual Studio\!  </span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 12pt">To improve our next release, Microsoft
wants to connect **<span style="FONT-WEIGHT: bold">everyday</span>**
users of Visual Studio 2005 with our internal engineers –
Engineer-to-Engineer.  We’re looking for you to give us feedback on how
to make the current product better.  If you use Visual Studio 2005 as
part of your daily work, you are invited to participate in a one-time
1-4 hour survey, and then to join our Engineer-to-Engineer (E2E)
Connection Program with opportunities to continue your participation
beyond our initial survey.  Participation is totally voluntary and it’s
up to you to decide your level of participation.  Participation ranges
from our one-time survey to future direct-interaction with product teams
in defining our product.</span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 12pt">Each time you are selected (and are able)
to participate in one of our E2E Connection Program activities, you can
select a gratuity of your choice from our extensive library of titles. 
Gratuities include several of our software packages ranging from Visual
Studio Pro through Xbox games.  </span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 12pt"></span>

 

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 12pt">If you are interested and would like more
information, please contact Andy
([a-andy@microsoft.com](blocked::mailto:a-andy@microsoft.com "blocked::mailto:a-andy@microsoft.com
mailto:a-andy@microsoft.com")).  If you are a good match, we will ask
you to complete our survey in <span style="COLOR: navy">March</span>. 
We appreciate your consideration regarding participation in our E2E
Connection Program.  </span>

</div>

</div>
