<div id="page">

# Language Research

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
1/30/2004 5:37:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

Recently
[winnetmag](http://www.winnetmag.com/windowspaulthurrott/Article/ArticleID/41532/windowspaulthurrott_41532.html)
posted this piece on C\# and Xen (X\#) and I felt like I had to respond.

***Just What We Need--Yet Another Programming Language**  
I hope you've have mastered C\# because Microsoft is working to replace
it with yet another C-like programming language. Dubbed Xen (previously
X\#), the new language melds C\# with XML and SQL Server support. To be
fair, if Microsoft develops the new language correctly it will be a
superset of C\#, prompting me to wonder whether the company should
market Xen as a new C\# version. Otherwise, Microsoft risks alienating
C\# users as the company alienated Visual Basic (VB) users when it moved
from the simple VB 6.0 language to the more complicated Visual Basic
.NET.*

Let's be clear here, Microsoft is not working to replace C\# with Xen
and we are not planning on productizing Xen.  We invest a lot of time
and effort into research projects and Xen is an example of just that, a
research project.  We will continue to fund language research projects
and learn from them.  For example, the [Microsoft Research
download](http://research.microsoft.com/research/downloads/) page lists
several language projects including - AbsIL, AsmL, F\#, Gyro, Pan,
and TLA+. 

If you're a C\# developer, and you want to get a better understanding of
the C\# language design process, or, more specifically you want to know
why your favorite feature from your favorite language isn't included in
C\#, then you should definitely check out
[Eric's](http://blogs.msdn.com/ericgu/) blog post where he describes the
process of [choosing C\# language
features](http://blogs.msdn.com/ericgu/archive/2003/09/08/52538.aspx).

 

</div>

</div>
