<div id="page">

# Learn How to Program - Beginner Developer Learning Center

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
3/1/2007 12:23:03
PM

-----

<div id="content">

![](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/LearnHowtoProgramBeginnerDeveloperLearni_83F0/beginner%5B7%5D.jpg)

 

As [Soma announced on his
blog](http://blogs.msdn.com/somasegar/archive/2007/03/01/beginner-developer-learning-center-launched.aspx),
we've now officially released the [Beginner Developer Learning
Center](http://msdn.com/vstudio/express/beginner), the one place
designed for learning software development fundamentals.

 

The goal is to address the \#1 request from our existing Express
customers...**more beginner content** (more on that below), but we do
this with:

 

  - **True Absolute Beginner content** - True beginners don't know how
    the internet works, what a variable is, or the difference between an
    object or a class.
  - [**Provide a Learning
    Path**](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/beginner/learningpath/)
    **** - There's a million pieces of content, provide a gradual,
    step-by-step approach to learning.
  - **Tiered Content** - If you already know the basics, you can dive
    right into the right content level for you
  - **Offline Learning** - Making sure that our learning materials are
    available for both online and offline use, this means packaging the
    tutorials, videos, and all code samples in easy-to-use content packs
  - **Task-Based Snack-Size Learning** - We also have a [How-To
    reference
    library](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/beginner/reference/default.aspx)
    with 5-10 minute tutorials on a specific task (ex: Adding Audio to
    your application)
  - **Visual Studio Express Guided Tour Videos -** To help users
    understand the key features of the Visual Studio Express IDE.
  - [**Learning Materials for
    Kids**](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/beginner/kids/default.aspx)
    - Content created by organizations like Digigirlz among other groups
    designed to teach programming fundamentals. 

 

**Feedback Welcome  
**This is our first big leap in beginner content. We'll continue to add
and improve the content based on your feedback, so let us know what's
hard, confusing, or missing.

 

**Why we did this  
**Visual Studio Express launched on November, 2005, since then, we've
had **10+ million downloads**. Wow\! I wonder when we can claim to be
the most popular developer tool ever?

Once a year, we send an email to a random sampling of registered Express
customers that opted-in to communication from Microsoft. For those of
you that get a survey, do realize we take your feedback very seriously.
The survey is handled by ComScore Media Metrix and we literally receive
thousands of pieces of customer feedback on everything from user
satisfaction, product suggestions, skill level, time spent developing
and so forth. Jacqueline Russell on our team is our data wonk and helped
organize the feedback into key themes to look for trends. This literally
meant reading thousands of pieces of feedback, but there is no better
place to get feedback on what your customers pain is.

The most interesting data point was the \#1 requested content by all
customers, from VB Express to C++ Express customers, the \#1 request
was....**More Beginner Content**. To give you an idea of what beginner
content means, here's the verbatim feedback from an anonymous customer
for his suggestion on how to improve Express:

> *More understandable - "seems like it's written by .NET geeks for .NET
> geeks. You should take your online documentation to an 8th grade
> computer class and have them proof it to see if they understand it"*

I couldn't have said it better myself :)

 

**Big Thanks  
**Huge kudos to Jacqueline Russell for creating the [Beginner Developer
Learning Center](http://msdn.com/vstudio/express/beginner) and for
refreshing the [Visual Studio Express
site](http://msdn.com/vstudio/express).  She made it her personal
mission to make sure we dramatically improve our experience for
beginners and the results I think are amazing. I also want to thank the
MSDN folks (Amar Shah, Dan Ledrick, etc) and of course our sixth-man
that's rescued our team too many times now, Kent Sharkey, for getting
our site up and running.

</div>

</div>
