<div id="page">

# Made In Express Winners Announced

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
9/19/2006 11:01:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

**The Winners Are In\!**

Today we officially announced the winners to the [Made In
Express](http://www.madeinexpress.com/) Contest including the Grand
Prize ($10,000 US), First Prize, and Community Choice winners. The
competition was tight and the voting even produced a tie for first
place. Rather than breaking the tie, we’ve decided to recognize two
First Prize awards\! Read on to see who [Robert
Scoble](http://scobleizer.wordpress.com/), [Phil
Torrone](http://makezine.com/blog/) and [Chris
Pirillo](http://chris.pirillo.com/) voted for:

**Grand Prize Winner**

![](http://www.danfernandez.com/image001.jpg)  
[Ernie Hall](http://www.madeinexpress.com/finalist3.asp?id=3)  
Cincinnati, Ohio, USA  
Project: All terrain self-maneuverable robot

Ernie’s all-terrain self-maneuverable robot was a huge favorite with the
judges. “*Ernie Hall’s robot just stood out*,” says judge Robert Scoble,
“*His videos, blogs, and the project itself made it a clear winner right
away*.” Ernie encourages everyone to keep on learning, recently posting
“You can learn C\# even if you are 65” in his blog. As a professor at
the University of Cincinnati, Hall now plans to turn his code and blog
entries into a course for my computer science and engineering robotics
students.

 

**First Prize Winner (tie)**

![](http://www.danfernandez.com/image002.jpg)  
[Ali Khalid Lahore](http://www.madeinexpress.com/finalist10.asp?id=10)  
Punjab, Pakistan  
Project: Instant IM Translation

Ali’s idea to help people communicate via instant messaging in different
languages came from a personal need, “*I have a friend in France whose
English is not so good, so whenever we are talking on the MSN Messenger,
I copy what ever he says, paste it into a translation service, then type
my reply in English, translate it into French and copy it back in MSN
Messenger.*” From the start, people loved Ali’s idea to bring people
closer together, “*…what i mean to say that your idea will help many
people out there, it'll help communicating with people so i wish u good
luck with your idea,*” says one commenter on his blog.

 

**First Prize Winner (tie)**

![](http://www.danfernandez.com/image003.jpg)   
[Jonas Martinsson](http://www.madeinexpress.com/finalist6.asp?id=6)  
Petah Tikva, Israel  
Project: Personalized print newspaper/magazine

Jonas helped us all take a step closer to publishing our own newspaper
based on the news we care about. FeedJournal is “*actually a little
glimpse of the future…it will likely be a common way for readers to
‘roll their own’ magazines in the near future*” says judge Phil
Torrone, Senior Editor of Make Magazine. Jonas plans to continue
development of FeedJournal and even aspires to make a commercial version
of the application available.

 

**Community Choice Winner**

![](http://www.danfernandez.com/image004.jpg)  
[Sanchez Roman
Canlas](http://www.madeinexpress.com/finalist1.asp?id=1)  
Makati City, Metro Manila, Philippines  
Project: A curmudgeon chat bot

Roman’s curmudgeon chat bot styled on the popular television show “Dr.
House” was a big favorite with the community voters. Clearly, thinking
about the larger community is a big deal for him. “*The fun thing about
this competition are the diversity of people involved in it,*” says
Canlas, “*We can conclude that technology is universal despite of your
race and color*”.

**** 

**Congratulations to the Winners  
**Big congratulations to Ernie Hall, Ali Khalid Lahore, Jonas
Martinsson, and Sanchez Roman Canlas for their hard work in making their
ideas come to life\!

</div>

</div>
