<div id="page">

# Managed Code Game Development & Coding4Fun Articles

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
5/10/2005 11:25:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

Want to learn how to create your own game step-by-step? How about being
able to learn from some of the best? [DigiPen](http://www.digipen.edu/)
is presenting an 8-Part webcast series on [**Game Development using
Visual C\# 2005 Express
Edition**](http://www.microsoft.com/events/series/msdnvideodev.mspx).

From the abstract: *Presenters demonstrate the key stages in developing
a game engine through the creation of a top-down shooter game called
"Star Trooper," using Visual C\# 2005 Express Edition, a new development
environment from Microsoft designed for beginner programmers.*

[**Sign up
today**](http://www.microsoft.com/events/series/msdnvideodev.mspx)

We've also updated the Coding4Fun site with some cool new articles:

[**Jeff Key shows off
URLBuddy**](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/coolapplications/urlbuddy/default.aspx),
an incredibly useful and beautiful task tray application that listens to
your clipboard for URLs. The "Recent URLs" feature is alone to make me
want to send money to Jeff directly
:) 

![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/images/coolapps/urlbuddy/image001.jpg) 

[**Using the Google Web
Services**](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/xmlforfun/googleIt/default.aspx) -
Peter Bernhardt shows off how easy it is to databind data returned from
a Web service by showing a multi-language Google Search
page.  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/images/xml/googleIt/image001.jpg)

We've also added a new Q\&A Article series featuring the ZMan from
[theZBuffer.com](http://www.thezbuffer.com/).In this entry, the Zman
walks through the details of how textures and meshs work and how you can
apply a texture to a mesh.    

[**Ask the ZMan: Applying
Textures**](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/gamedevelopment/zmanTextures/default.aspx)   
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/images/gameDev/zmanTextures/image004.gif)

[**Sean Campbell walks through a ResearchHelper
application**](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/inthebox/researchhelp/default.aspx)
**** which automatically searches Google, Google Groups, Google News,
Feedster, and
Technorati  

![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/images/inthebox/researchHelp/Produc1.gif)

 

[**Bill Evjen show's how to Extend the Personal Web Site Starter
Kit**](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/webcoder/extendpws/default.aspx)  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/en-us/dnaspp/html/extendpws_fig11.gif)

 

 

</div>

</div>
