<div id="page">

# Me versus 520

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
7/25/2003 2:23:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

I have bad luck driving into work lately, on Wednesday there was a truck
that had engine problems on 520 (the bridge that connects Seattle to
MSHQ and which already [killed one of my
computers](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/danielfe/PermaLink.aspx/74c6733c-d705-4f78-845a-a7d1b4951d89))
and my commute was about an hour.  On the way home I didn't have any
problems, but coming in on Thursday morning 520 was backed up pretty bad
from an accident involving a Mazda Miata and two other vehicles which
made my commute over an hour\!  I typically leave work late and miss the
hellish commute crossing 520 back to Seattle, but on Thursday evening
there was a Mercedes that apparently died and traffic was again backed
up.  So three out of four times commuting to work I've chosen the exact
time when accidents or disabled vehicles are on 520.  I also recently
discovered that there are patron saints for just about
[everything](http://www.catholic-forum.com/saints/patron00.htm),
including patrons saints against moles,  bartenders, computers, drivers,
gravel,  skating, toothaches, and \*many\* more.  There is apparently no
patron saint of traffic, or as I was previously told by my sister, there
is no patron saint of good parking spots (Aunt Betty), although she has
helped me during the holidays when I go to the mall.

Speaking of cars, Ford recently re-released my new vehicular love, the
Ford GT.  It's out of my league, but I'm saving pocket change everyday
in hopes of putting it on lay away. 
![](http://www.fordvehicles.com/fordgt/images/photo_gallery/ph_gt_popup_4.jpg)

You can read more about it and entice your salivary glands at the [Ford
GT site](http://www.fordvehicles.com/fordgt/gallery.asp?bhcp=1).

I can deal with traffic on 520 if I had this car :) 

</div>

</div>
