<div id="page">

# MGB Part 2

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
7/24/2003 7:20:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

Another great part of MGB is that I got to catch up with my old
co-workers from DC who are all doing well.  Shout outs to everybody,
especially since some read my blog\!  I also got to play [Rise of
Nations](http://www.microsoft.com/games/riseofnations/), a game that I
thought was only beta, but has apparently been released.
[Ed](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/edkaim),
[Keller](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/briankel) and I played for about
three hours and had a blast, except for the occasional lag. The game is
a lot of fun and has quite a bit of depth. As none of us had ever played
before, the game was very much about creating every type of building
possible and seeing what those buildings could do. I didn't notice any
differences between specific civilization types, but the vastness of the
different buildings and "ages" can really make the game a little
overwhelming. Unlike Age of *X* games, this game ties in some of the
depth of Sid Meier's Civilization, but with a primary focus on RTS. I
was the first to get to the nuclear age (somewhere between upgrading, my
"knights" became "tanks") and I nuked Keller several times, destroying
his "wonders" which, unlike AO*X* games, actually upgrade your
attributes. Ed ended up winning, as the game somehow went into a "Wonder
race" mode. All-in-all, I give it a 4.5/5. After the game, we walked
outside of Hall J into the main entryway of the convention center. Our
adrenal glands were still secreting because of the intensity of the
game, so it came as no surprise that Keller, the monkey that he is, ran
to the escalater and started running UP one of the two sets of DOWN
escalaters (about 100 stairs or so). I tell Keller that I could beat him
to the top of the stairs. Ed says there's no way we can reach the top
given the length of the escalator and puts $5 on the line. I take his
bet, race Keller, and win, collapsing onto the ground at the top of the
stairs. Luckily this caused my adrenaline to finally leave my body, and
I sat on one of the stairs trying to catch my breath the way down. Ed
also
[blogged](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/edkaim/PermaLink.aspx/1fd24fc2-b76f-4054-b2a7-062ac541a945)
about this and added a
[picture](http://www.gotdotnet.com/team/edkaim/072403/1.jpg). Why
mention this
quasi-[Knoxvillian](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Knoxville,+Johnny) stunt?
Well because it got us thinking about how many actual stairs we had
climbed and how this would make a great interview question. First, the
facts you would get as an interviewee:

  - The escalator is 100 stairs long
  - The escalator is moving at a constant speed, x
  - You are travelling at a rate of x+y

You then have the choice of expressing the speed either as rate of
stairs/second, or miles per hour. In the case of miles per hour, you
would want some fixed distance, like each escalator is one foot long and
one foot high and you can use the good old pythagorian theorem to figure
out the right angles for the stairs (or at least most of them, but
that's part of the trick) There's actually a decent amount of depth that
you could explore in this question, so I won't give everything away and
I'll save this for my next technical interview :)

Now I'm back in Redmond and am reasonably overwhelmed, again. 

</div>

</div>
