<div id="page">

# Microsoft search supports the "\#" symbol\!

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
7/25/2003 6:57:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

Reading
[Korby's](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/korbyp/PermaLink.aspx/14b5442d-097f-4261-b683-11cb2e63321d)
blog today, I saw that Microsoft recently updated their [search
page](http://search.microsoft.com/search/search.aspx?view=en-us&st=b)
and you can now successfully enter "C\#" and find C\#\!  What \**used*\*
to happen is that the "\#" symbol got ignored and a search for "C\#
samples" returned "C samples".  BIG thanks to the MS search team for
making this happen\!  I originally noticed this before I took the job
as the C\# Product Manager, and as it turns out I wasn't the only
person who was aware of this flaw.  When C\# was originally mentioned on
MS websites (circa 2000), Tony, the C\# Product Manager at the time,
 noticed that MS search didn't allow for the "\#" symbol and e-mailed
the search team.  Per Tony, they responded by saying we should rename
the language, and Tony responded with a classic
[Goodhew-ism](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/briankel/PermaLink.aspx/28384afc-6509-450b-a7be-8e6ec631e56a),
which I won't repeat but it involved Tony pointing out, in only the
blatantly obvious way that Tony can, that the search engine should be
able to support a character in the [8-bit
ASCII](http://www.jimprice.com/jim-asc.htm) set, which has been around
since the 60's.  Tony rules.

After hearing this, I set my 2-year personal mission to be able to
search for "C\#" on Microsoft.com.  About the only thing I actually did
to accomplish this goal was to mention this to [Sara
Williams](http://http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/saraw/), who informed me
that search was being revamped.  I'm not sure if Sara did anything, but
she totally understood, and also explained to me that MSDN is dependent
on the general MS search, so there wasn't much she could do.  I
definitely got to give her credit though :)

On a side note, the "\#" symbol, commonly referred to as the pound or
hash symbol is technically known as the
[octothorpe](http://www.quinion.com/words/weirdwords/ww-oct1.htm). The
quick explanation of the octothorpe is included below:

*The story as told by Ralph Carlsen is that a Bell Labs engineer, Don
Macpherson, went to instruct their first client, the Mayo Clinic, in the
use of the new system. He felt the need for a fresh and unambiguous name
for the \# symbol. His reasoning that led to the new word was roughly
that it had eight points, so ought to start with octo–. He was
apparently at that time active in a group that was trying to get the
Olympic medals of the athlete Jim Thorpe returned from Sweden, so he
decided to add thorpe to the end.*

  The "\#" symbol in "C\#" is <span class="underline">**not**</span> an
octothorpe, but instead the musical note C\#. For simplicity, this is
expressed as the "\#" symbol.  Another theory that I've heard is that
the \# symbol is a combination of  the "++" in C++, with the "+"
symbols crossed over each other to form the \# symbol.

Other sites I regularly use that don't support "C\#"

  - Some parts of Amazon.com
  - BlogX for category names, which is a while back why I added the
    phonetic spelling of C\# and stopped using the "C\#" category

 

</div>

</div>
