<div id="page">

# MS Product Roadmap Released

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
7/29/2003 2:10:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

If you do any .NET development, you absolutely have to see our
officially released [Product
Roadmap](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/productinfo/roadmap.aspx). 
There's a section on C\# futures that should interest developers
and [EricR](http://msdn.microsoft.com/blogs/ericr/) did a keynote at VS
Live NY with
[Bix](http://www.universalthread.com/Magazine/June2001/AriBixhorn.jpg)
showing off the new features for Windows Forms and ASP.NET.

Some of \*my\* favorite project improvements are:

**SQL Server CLR Integration:** Create functions, stored procedures,
triggers, types, and aggregates in any .NET language (C\#, VB.NET, etc)

**Windows Forms No Touch Deployment**: *"New capabilities will include
support for running applications offline, rolling back to previous
versions of an application, and listing an application in the Windows
Start menu as well as the Remove Programs catalog within the Control
Panel. Additionally, No-Touch Deployment in Whidbey will enable
developers to distribute the .NET Framework with a Windows client
application."*

**Winforms Improvements**: Host Office Documents using the Active
Document Container, Office-style toolbars, a better web browser control
(no more AX code\!), and the background worker for async tasks.

**ASP.NET:** The DataSource control makes working with relational, xml
and other data sources \*much\* easier.  The GridView is a DataGrid with
everything you had to manually add (paging, sorting, editing, and
deleting).  The Details View shows you details about a specific record,
Master Pages lets you set the UI for your web page once (header,
background, etc) and have all other pages inherit that UI.  The ASP.NET
team has also gone the extra mile and added themes and skins for
easy web site customization.  You really need to see ASP.NET 2.0 in
person to realize how much easier it will be to develop web UI. 

**ADO.NET:** Gains better debugging, built in XQuery capabilities and
object persistence using ObjectSpaces.

**Enterprise Tools**: *"Microsoft will deliver a set of visual designers
that help architects translate their requirements into Web
services-based applications and components. The designers will provide
modeling support for describing these applications and components, along
with corresponding policy for security, protocols, and more. The
designers will also enable developers to map their logical application
to their physical production environment, making it easier to deploy
complex Web services-based solutions."*

**SourceSafe Revamp**: *"In Whidbey, Microsoft will improve upon the
Visual SourceSafe tools and offer programmers working in small teams the
technology they need to manage source code as well as other files in
their solution. Visual SourceSafe will be extended to offer support for
Web service and Unicode projects, helping programmers more effectively
meet the challenges of today's business. Further, programmers will enjoy
improved performance and tighter integration between Visual SourceSafe
and the Visual Studio IDE."*

Some Press coverage:

<http://www.atnewyork.com/news/article.php/2241651>  
<http://www.infoworld.com/article/03/02/11/HNvistudio_1.html>  
<http://zdnet.com.com/2100-1104-984129.html> 

#### 

</div>

</div>
