<div id="page">

# Music - Seattle and on the Web

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
8/5/2004 10:21:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

Ouch, this morning I experienced the pain [Cyrus
felt](http://blogs.msdn.com/cyrusn/archive/2004/07/15/184106.aspx)
recently, I had to listen to 80's music for the drive into work on C89.5
FM. Painful. I only listen to [C89.5](http://www.c895fm.com/) when
[Howard Stern](http://www.howardstern.com) is on commercial (which last
approx 10 minutes and happen every twenty minutes).  I definitely agree
with Cyrus though, Nocturnal Transmission rocks. If you're a developer
working late and need some peppy music to keep you up, you should
definitely [tune in](http://www.c895fm.com/live/knhc.sm.asx).

**Reader Question: How many of you listen to music while working/writing
code? What genre(s) of music do you listen to?  **From my experience
it's a pretty big number. When I'm working I tend to listen to house,
lounge, or hip-hop, and then throw in the Drum and Bass when I'm sleep
deprived.  If I had way too much disposable income, I think I would just
make mixes explicitly for code warriors.  The label would have some
nerdy reference like “Version 3.0 Records” or something similar and I
would have a listening booth at nerd events like TechEd and blogger
conferences. The only music that I know of that was geared towards
computer geeks was
[www.musicforhackers.com](http://www.musicforhackers.com) - Soundscapes
for comprimising a remote host, but they shut down a while ago. As did
[DJSnoop](http://www.djsnoop.com/) which rocked while it was up and
[Christian](http://www.google.com/search?sourceid=navclient&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&q=%22christian+malpeli%22)
and
[Kris](http://www.google.com/search?q=%22kris+krajewski%22&hl=en&lr=&ie=UTF-8&start=10&sa=N) from
[www.elysiumdc.com](http://www.elysiumdc.com) had some great
mixes (note: the last one is shameless plug)

 Here's my quick list of music resources I use for the web:

**Dance**

  - [Yo Radio](http://www.yoshop.com/app/YO?p=yoshiRadio) - Great mixes
    here but the list has been stale for a while
  - [Judge Jules Mixes](http://www.judgejules.net/index.php?page=10)
  - [Frankie Naples](http://djfranknaples.com/)
  - [Live From the Underground](http://www.entartet.de/livesound.htm)
    (Germany)
  - [RaveLinks Radio](http://www.ravelinks.com/raveradio/djmixes.htm)

If you're not a dance music fan, then you'll like
[Strongbad's](http://www.homestarrunner.com/vcr_sb.html) techno [music
creation techniques](http://www.homestarrunner.com/sbemail45.html)

**Web Radio**

  - [Windows Media Radio
    Turner](http://windowsmedia.com/radiotuner/MyRadio.asp)
  - [Live 365](http://www.live365.com/) - Online Radio and all music
    genres (they used to have a Muppets radio station)
  - [Radio Locator](http://www.radio-locator.com/cgi-bin/home) - Search
    all for Internet Streaming Radio by Genre
  - [Web Radio](http://www.web-radio.fm/) - Search online radio
    stations by State

**Recently purchased music**

  - [Thievery Corporation - Outernational
    Sound](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/B00024BHUG/104-3156340-2874304?%5Fencoding=UTF8&v=glance)
  - [Federico Abuele - Gran Hotel Buenos
    Aires](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/B0001DMUNQ/104-3156340-2874304?%5Fencoding=UTF8&v=glance)
  - [L.T.J Bukem Vol 2- Logical
    Progression](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/B000009QUP/104-3156340-2874304?%5Fencoding=UTF8&v=glance)
  - [L.T.J Bukem Journey
    Inwards](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/B00004SGS5/104-3156340-2874304?%5Fencoding=UTF8&v=glance)

 

Currently listening to
[this](http://www.mta.ca/pub/music/she_dances.ram)

</div>

</div>
