<div id="page">

# Outlook 2003 Confessional

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
6/8/2004 8:18:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

Outlook is my one salvation from sheer chaos.  As I've complained before
several times before
([here](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/04/14/113582.aspx),
and
[here](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/04/28/122024.aspx)),
I'm pretty busy.  Outlook is the shining light that keeps me sane. 
Having taken an internal course on time management a couple of years
ago, Managing Action Using Outlook, I realized I wasn't the only one
overwhelmed by email at Microsoft.  The beginning of the class was a
confessional, people were asked *“How many unread emails you have in
your inbox?”* I thought I was bad with 200 unread emails.  One person in
the class had 2,000+. I realized I wasn't that bad off.  The course
taught me to two things - see if the email is actionable, if not, do you
need to save it, if not, delete it. If it is actionable, can you reply
immediately, if not, put a flag on it and describe the task that needs
to be accomplished.  The second lesson was to use my Outlook calendar
religiously to schedule my time and to color code any events I had.. 
Here's my calendar for April - May before TechEd: 

![](http://www.danfernandez.com/view/view.aspx?ID=22)

  - Red colors indicate high priority items that you would lose sleep
    over
  - Dark Blue are regularly schedule meetings
  - Light blue indicates travel
  - Green is a personal event
  - Orange is a customer event
  - Brown is when I schedule time to work on projects

I also love Outlook 2003 Search Folders. I flag all mail that is urgent
(red), I need to respond to but not immediately (yellow), will read
later (green), special projects (orange blue), and mail I want to
remember to follow up on (purple).  The problem is that by flagging
mail, I would get a rather large \# of emails flagged for follow up.  So
I created a search folder with just red and yellow flags and any overdue
items.  I called it Hot Flags, meaning that if I even have five minutes
in-between meetings, these are the flags I should work on. My goal is to
keep this around 20.  As you can see below I'm doing great with unread
mail, but I clearly have a lot of actionable mail.

![](http://www.danfernandez.com/view/view.aspx?ID=23)

Now onto the confessional: How many unread emails do you have in your
inbox? What tips (besides the delete key) would you recommend to stay on
top of information overflow?

</div>

</div>
