<div id="page">

# Personal Rant: Fighting for TechEd Sessions and mitigation ideas

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
2/11/2005 9:10:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

\<PersonalRant\>

There was a lot of [good
sessions](http://blogs.msdn.com/bclteam/archive/2005/01/21/358484.aspx)
and fighting for too few spots TechEd this year.  It was brutal, and I
mean brutal. There were hundreds of recommendations, fewer total session
spots then last year, a new security track, VSTS sessions, and a
Business Applications (MS CRM) track. About 90% of all session
recommendations were cut. Ouch\!

Bottom line, there are only **two dedicated C\# sessions** this year.
I tried, I really, \*really\* did. We had more last year, and they were
all very highly rated and attended. That said, there are still plenty of
other good sessions that should interest C\# developers (I'll blog about
them lest you get a bad opinion overall).

One of my biggest issues is that the Smart Client track focuses way too
much on Office. Office already has a dedicated [Office Developer
Conference](http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/press/2004/dec04/12-20OffDevCon2005PR.asp),
so I personally don't think that more then half (14 out of 23) sessions
needed to be dedicated to Office. Here's a quick breakdown

  - 3 InfoPath sessions
  - 6 Office Programming Sessions (This includes niche sessions like
    programming Visio)
  - 3 VSTO sessions
  - 2 IBF sessions

Like I said before, there are only 2 dedicated C\# sessions (and only 2
dedicated VB sessions for that matter, but they at least got a pre-con).
So does this mean there are more InfoPath developers or VSTO developers
in the world? Is it obvious that I'm bitter because I wanted more C\#
sessions?\! Yes. Can you tell that the Smart Client track was run by
someone in Office?

Here are some gems that we had planned that got cut:

  - ~~Visual C\# 2003 Pre-Con  
    ~~A full day of dedicated to learning C\#
  - ~~C\# Language Enhancements~~   
    How can you cut a session given by Anders Hejlsberg that was in the
    **top 5 sessions last year**?
  - ~~C\# Best Practices 1.1~~ - Juval Lowy
  - ~~C\# Best Practices 2.0~~ - Juval Lowy
  - ~~Patterns and Practices - Best Practices for Smart Client
    Applications~~
  - ~~Patterns and Practices - Creating Applications using the UIP 2.0
    Application Block~~
  - ~~Developing real-world .NET solutions for Microsoft Office 11 using
    Managed Code~~   
    People say Microsoft doesn't create applications that use the .NET
    Framework and they point to Office as an example. Well, Business
    Contact Manager is a fully managed application that ships with every
    copy of Office 2003 Professional. This would've been a killer
    session IMO.
  - ~~Best Practices & Lessons Learned from .NET Framework 2.0 & Visual
    Studio .NET 2005 Early Adopters~~
  - ~~The Well Designed API  
    ~~There is however a great series on [MSDN for this
    now](http://msdn.microsoft.com/netframework/programming/classlibraries/default.aspx)
  - ~~Under the Covers: Generic Collections~~
  - ~~NET Smart Clients at Microsoft:  Real Enterprise Solutions and
    Lessons Learned~~   
    We have an internal team that's developed and deployed an enterprise
    wide .NET Framework 2.0 application. It includes online/offline
    data, ClickOnce, etc.
  - ~~Interface Based Programming~~
  - ~~Debugging Data-Driven ASP.NET 2.0 Applications with Visual Studio
    2005~~

We also have a number of Instructor Led Labs, but sadly these are on the
chopping block (please reply with comments if you would like hands-on
instructor led lab listed below)

**Hands-on Instructor Led Labs** (assuming they get approved)

  - C\# Generics - Juval Lowy
  - C\# 2.0 Iterators - Juval Lowy
  - System.Transactions - Juval Lowy
  - Lap Around Visual C\#  2005 - Dan

My question to you: What is the best mitigation strategy for cut
sessions? Here are some options (feel free to suggest more)

  - Move to the cabana - This means no slides or demos, just a
    whiteboard
  - Make it a webcast
  - Something else entirely

Thoughts, ideas, opinions and suggestions welcome\!

\</PersonalRant\>

</div>

</div>
