<div id="page">

# Responding to post on OTB and BlueJ

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
6/14/2005 1:51:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

\[Please read my
[Disclaimer](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/articles/106589.aspx)\]

**NOTE**: I don't own Object Test Bench, I just happened to blog about
it as I thought it was a hidden feature in VS 2005 and only discovered
it when playing around with Class Designer.

Recently, Michael Kölling, one of the creators of
[BlueJ](http://www.bluej.org), "an IDE for beginner Java developers",
[wrote an article about how Microsoft has gone
BlueJ](http://www.bluej.org/vs/vs-bj.html). Michael's article links to
me since I blogged about [Object Test Bench
previously](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2005/01/26/361375.aspx) so
I felt compelled to at least provide him a response especially after he
wrote this:

**Quote**: *Do I care? I don't care that they copied BlueJ - good on
them, and good luck to them. But I care about attribution.  
I work at a university, and I strongly believe in honest attribution of
sources. Microsoft does not have a good track record on this. So I
decided to post these screenshots here so that people can at least see
and make up there own minds.*

After reading the post, I followed up internally and here's the response
from the \[academic\] team:

**Quote**: *We talked to hundreds of teachers when we built the new
academic features in Visual Studio 2005 such as the Class Designer, the
Object Test Bench, and the Express product line. Many teachers told us
that they liked using Visual Studio with their students, but they felt
that it was difficult to teach Object-Oriented Design principles using
earlier versions of Visual Studio. One of the scenarios we chose to
address was to make Visual Studio 2005 a better tool for teaching
object-oriented and service-oriented programming. “Design-time
debugging” as a feature was already a planned feature for Visual
Studio 2005. Object Test Bench, which evolved as a visualization of this
functionality, was influenced by feedback from teachers who were used to
working with BlueJ. The Class Designer was also a planned feature of the
new “Whitehorse” functionality. We did tweak both of these features
based on teacher feedback, which borrows from several teaching concepts
these teachers already enjoy with BlueJ. We have received very positive
feedback on these features so far, and we welcome more feedback to
enhance teaching scenarios even more with our next Visual Studio
release, code named “Orcas.”*

**\*My\*** interpretation of the above statement is basically that
our academic customers wanted this because of the success of this BlueJ
feature.

Michael's comments were pretty fair, the only thing I took issue with
was his "invention"/"innovation" statement which I found misleading:  
**Quote**: *Already, the blogs are buzzing about this "Great New
Microsoft Innovation". (Did you notice, by the way, how Microsoft have
managed to change the term in all the relevant discussions from
"invention" to "innovation"? Very clever. Copying someone else's idea is
not an invention, but it is innovation. Microsoft: the innovation
company...)*

Don't get me wrong, I open my mouth on my blog quite a bit, but I
**never** used the word invention or innovation once in my blog post. I
described it as "a new Visual Studio 2005 feature".  I assumed that
maybe it was one of the other bloggers talking about OTB. Nope, none of
the ones that Michael linked to used those words either. Now that
Michael has said we described this as an "invention/innovation", other
bloggers have now passed on this misinformation
([1](http://tim.littlebluefrog.com/2005/06/04/how-can-it-be-6am-already/),
[2](http://falcon-dark.blogspot.com/2005/05/microsoft-empresa-das-inovaes.html)).
So it goes in the blogging world.

 

 

 

 

  
 

</div>

</div>
