<div id="page">

# That King Charles Spaniel (English Toy Spaniel) itching and scratching isn't allergies

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
1/30/2007 7:24:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

**\* Update March 6th (+1 month after surgery):** It's been about a
month and Bambino is doing amazingly well. The first couple of weeks
were very shaky, but in the last week, we've seen him remarkably
improve. He's gained back his interest in playing with toys, he's
regained his energy running around the house and he even jumped on the
couch for the first time since before the surgery. The difficulty here
is that while he may have his energy back, we still need to watch him
and keep him confined for at least another four weeks. Still, the
improvement in the last two weeks has been nothing short of amazing
:)

 

[![](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/ThatKingCharlesSpanielEnglishToySpanieli_E6BE/582207017103_0_ALB.jpg)](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/ThatKingCharlesSpanielEnglishToySpanieli_E6BE/582207017103_0_ALB%5B1%5D.jpg)
[![](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/ThatKingCharlesSpanielEnglishToySpanieli_E6BE/bams.jpg)](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/ThatKingCharlesSpanielEnglishToySpanieli_E6BE/bams%5B1%5D.jpg) 

My wife and I have a "son", his name is Bambino, he's 3 years old, has
[34 friends on Dogster](http://www.dogster.com/dogs/48829), has
travelled to Austin, DC, Vegas, New York, Whistler, South Beach (he was
even in the VIP section of Nikki Beach Club, but that’s a different
story), and he's the light of our lives. On Wednesday of last week, we
got the official confirmation from an MRI scan that he has
[Syringomyelia (SM)](http://www.cavalierhealth.org/syringomyelia.htm), a
serious genetic condition where pockets of fluid develop in the brain
and spinal cord that, if left untreated, could cause paralysis. It is
also known as "neck scratcher's disease", because one of its common
signs is scratching in the air near the neck.

Before his diagnosis, we assumed that his constant scratching was due to
allergies.  We saw a veterinarian dermatologist and did skin allergy
tests.  We found that he was, in fact, allergic to cedar and fleas, so
it seemed to make sense that allergies were causing his problems since
the itching was worse when we took him outside for walks.  The reality
is that the itching (or tingling) would get worse when going on walks
because it caused him to get excited, and he has a leash around his neck
which can exacerbate the pain.  This also explained why he was itchy
after a bath and why he seemed to love lying on a
[chillow](http://www.chillow.com/) (but then again, so do I) as the
coolness relieved his pain.

This condition is very hard to diagnose because most of the symptoms are
normal dog behavior (itching, scratching, panting), and it seems that
most veterinarians aren’t really aware of the problem.  This is
especially true if you have an English Toy Spaniel because they don’t
get nearly as much attention as the Cavaliers when it comes to the
medical problems that these breeds have in common.

**Symptoms**

SM symptoms include itching or air scratching, sensitivity around the
neck, yelping in pain for no apparent reason, and even heavy panting. 
You can see videos of affected dogs here -
<http://sm.cavaliertalk.com/video.html>.

****

**Treatment **

The only way to actually treat this condition is through surgery, which
is a bit invasive, but frankly appears to be the only option. The
surgery isn't uncommon, but any surgery has a level of risk and this is
brain/spinal surgery so it's relatively complex.  We’ve been told that
there is an 80% success rate.  About half of those dogs experience a
complete recovery (limb strength restored and air scratching stops), the
other half show moderate improvement (usually means that limb strength
is restored, but the air scratching persists).  The other 20% develop
scar tissue which causes a relapse, but the dog is no worse off than
before. We’re grateful we caught this before it progressed to become
completely debilitating, but it’s been an emotional roller coaster.
 He’s scheduled for surgery this Thursday and Angie and I will split
time working from home after the surgery to make sure his recovery goes
smoothly.

**Blogging**

I wanted to blog about this to raise the awareness of SM since we’ve
seen many veterinarians that weren’t aware of SM and missed all of his
symptoms, allowing him to go undiagnosed for years as we kept giving him
Benadryl in an attempt to stop his itching.  SM can be found in several
breeds, most commonly in the Cavalier King Charles Spaniel, but also
Pugs and even Yorkshire Terriers.

This whole experience has been eye opening, and we hope that this
information may help others whose pets may be undiagnosed and
suffering.  If you’re purchasing any variety of King Charles Spaniel,
make sure to ask the breeder if they are doing MRI screening for SM on
their breeding animals since that is the only way to detect this
condition. The reason MRI screening is important is because some dogs
don’t exhibit all or any SM symptoms and the condition tends to get
worse with each generation.   It’s a red flag if your breeder has no
idea about SM, or claims that their line doesn’t have that problem and
cannot provide documentation that they are doing MRI screening for SM.

\- Dan and Angie

</div>

</div>
