<div id="page">

# The Hobbyist Renaissance at Microsoft

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
8/10/2006 4:42:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

\* Updated to include Windows Home Server which is now public  
\* Updated list to include [XNA Game Studio
Express](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2006/08/14/699229.aspx)
which is now public  
\* Updated list to include [Flight Simulator
X](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2006/10/18/vs-express-new-partner-announcements-z-wave-home-automation-flight-simulator-x.aspx)
which is now public

 

This post has been a long-time coming, and the thoughts have been
germinating in my mind since 2003 that I thought I would write them down
if nothing else to get this off my ever-growing to-do list. Oh and read
my [disclaimer](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/articles/106589.aspx). 

**Big Changes for a Small Product**  
When I first came to Redmond (I used to work at Microsoft as a Developer
Evangelist in the field out of Washington, DC), I learned about the
Visual Studio 2005 SKU plan and how we were explicitly creating
products, Visual Studio Express, for hobbyists, students, and beginner
developers. “Oh my god, wow, that’s brilliant” I thought. We were making
a big bet in the hobbyist customer that would radically change the
status quo of our business (Visual Studio) in many ways:

  - **Different Audience**:  We wanted to go beyond the professional
    developer and build targeted tools at beginners, hobbyists, and
    students. That meant that the way to target these customers is
    different \[[1](http://www.makezine.com/)\]
    \[[2](http://www.gamasutra.com/)\] then our [traditional
    audience](http://msdn.microsoft.com/msdnmag/default.aspx).
  - **Different Design Goal**: Simplicity is the soul of Express. If a
    feature wasn’t key to an Express scenario, it was [removed or
    hidden](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2006/05/10/594732.aspx).
  - **Different Pricing**:  From $99 to free**\***. 
  - **Different Product Size**:  Go from a multi-CD, multi-gigabyte
    install to a 50 MB IDE+Framework download. Small enough to fit on a
    USB keychain (which Paul infamously gave to BillG in an Express
    review describing how dramatic the change was. 
  - **Different Distribution**: Use the Web, and not retail or reseller
    as the primary channel.  The latter two are the primary way
    customers buy all versions of Visual Studio 2005 today.

**\*** Of the changes listed here, the pricing change was the most
contentious. Me and many others in DevDiv had to jump in front of the
train to make sure Express was free. It was a big historical departure
especially given that Bill Gates himself penned his famous “[An Open
Letter to
Hobbyists](http://www.blinkenlights.com/classiccmp/gateswhine.html)” in
1976 discussing how hobbyists were using Basic without paying for it. To
be fair, Bill’s email is really about the inherit value of intellectual
property, but thirty years later it’s interesting to see how history
repeats itself.  The Make Express Free “discussions”, were a long,
uphill battle that I alluded to in my [2004 Exhaustion blog
post](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2004/04/14/113582.aspx)
when I said I was “fighting for what I believe in.” The 400 slides
referenced in my “Exhaustion” post were dozens of market research
summaries that basically showed the pro and non-pro customers having
different needs and showing that a sizeable portion of these customers
pricing behavior was closer to being [perfectly
elastic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Price_elasticity_of_demand) (using
made up numbers this would be something like charging as little as $5
for Express could cut Express adoption by half). In any case, there are
many folks to thank that made this happen and this really was a team
effort, I’m truly grateful that Express is free for everyone (forever).

**Hobbyists in the Press circa 2002-2004**  
During the same time, outside the company, there were hobbyists
rumblings as far back as 2002, like Dan Bricklin’s well thought out [Why
Johnny Can’t Program](http://www.bricklin.com/wontprogram.htm), Larry
O’Brian’s 2003 observation that [hobbyists are “absolutely
underserved”](http://www.knowing.net/2003/11/25.aspx) or Kathleen
Dollard’s 2004 plea to [Save the Hobbyist
Programmer](http://www.ftponline.com/vsm/2004_04/magazine/departments/guestop/),
and of course rebuttals like Rory Blyth’s 2004 post on [Should the
Hobbyist Programmer Matter to
Microsoft?](http://neopoleon.com/blog/posts/3944.aspx) And of course
John Dvorak’s predictable “SubjectX-Is-Dead” style of incendiary (and
occasionally entertaining) writing in his 2003 article [Will the Last
Computer Hobbyist Turn out the
Lights?](http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,4149,1358125,00.asp) discuss
the unique needs/opportunities of hobbyists and entry-level developers. 
It was fascinating to read these at the time and think what the reaction
would be when we announced Visual Studio Express.  Would Dvorak be
right? Is no one interested in anything beyond HTML these days? Do
people even care anymore?

**June 29, 2004 – Express Beta 1**  
The answer to whether hobbyists exist anymore is “yes.” We knew it when
we [first announced
Express](http://blogs.msdn.com/somasegar/archive/2004/06/29/168686.aspx)
at TechEd Europe. In less than a week, we had over 100,000 downloads. 
For the developer tool market, that’s huge.  Fast forward to RTM, and
we’ve now had over **six million downloads in eight months**. That’s a
huge number and is a phenomena in and of itself, especially when
compared to other category leaders like Sirius Satellite Radio (\~3
million listeners) or World of Warcraft (6 million players). While
that’s not a fair comparison as Express is free, you at least get a
sense for how big the market is.  We did an Express customer survey in
March, 2006 and the data showed that **61% are brand new to .NET** and
that we were in fact getting new customers.

**Why Care About Hobbyists at All?**  
Why does it even matter for Microsoft to go after hobbyists? There are
really three reasons:

1. Enabling the masses to create applications on your platform is a key
factor in determining the success of your platform.  Examples of course
include the success of Windows where Visual Basic 1.0 democratized the
ability for anyone to create a Windows application, to sites like eBay
where the often-cited statistic is that 50% of their transactions come
through their Web services to countless other examples. The ability for
anyone to create and integrate your product/services easily (like a
mashup) is key to your success.   
2. From a tools perspective, it also builds a bigger pipeline of
developers who may go pro.  The biggest challenge the software industry
faces is that we simply don’t have the human capital to meet demand.  
3. Web Platform Wars. This is totally different from the .NET vs J2EE
competition we had in the past in that the target developer isn’t in an
enterprise and may not even call him or herself a developer.  [Yahoo has
an early lead here](http://developer.yahoo.com/), although
[MSN/Live](http://dev.live.com/) and [Google](http://code.google.com/)
are dramatically increasing their efforts in this space.  
   
**Hobbyist Renaissance Inside Microsoft**  
Inside Microsoft, it’s been incredibly amazing to see over the past few
years, the Hobbyist Renaissance unfold. [Scott
Wiltamuth](http://blogs.msdn.com/scottwil/) and I had a conversation
early on in the Express development cycle where he suggested that our
goal with Express should be that every organization inside Microsoft
create a hobbyist strategy. That idea really struck home with me and the
Express team’s been evangelizing internally ever since. There are of
course plenty of teams inside Microsoft that, without any encouragement
from us “get it”, while others are playing catch-up to competitors who
“got-it-before-we-did” and as even others who don’t want to care.

Here are just some examples inside Microsoft:

  - **Operating System**  – Windows Home Server, Sidebar Gadgets,
    PowerShell, native RSS, Peer-to-Peer, Windows Media Center API, and
    more
  - **Live Services** - Virtual Earth API, Live Gadgets, Search, MSN
    Messenger, Spaces among others 
  - **Devices** – The Micro Framework
  - **Robotics** – Microsoft Robotics Studio
  - **Developer Tools** - Visual Studio 2005 Express Editions
  - **Data** - SQL Server 2005 Express Edition, SQL Server Everywhere
    Edition, Access
  - **Games -** XNA Game Studio Express, Flight Simulator X

**Going Forward**  
We’re not done, in fact in a lot of ways, our early success has only
shown how much work there still is to do.  Programming is still too hard
today and, in a lot of cases, Express is still too high end for where we
want to go.  You **should not** need a four-year degree to create or
modify applications, period. The future is always murky, but I can only
promise you that there are lots of very cool projects going on inside
Microsoft that will redefine the experience for the next generation of
developers.   

**Join Us**  
We’re in startup mode and want to think big and deliver quickly. [Come
join us](http://blogs.msdn.com/johnmont/archive/2006/06/30/645874.aspx)
and help fight the good fight\!

</div>

</div>
