<div id="page">

# The Seattle Air Conditioning Lie

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
7/30/2004 12:29:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial">**\*\*Updated with
Crime Links**</span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span> 

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial">I believe the majority
of the residents in the Greater Seattle Metro area during the summer
live a lie.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">  </span>The lie in question
is that Seattle is temperate enough to not require air
conditioning.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">  </span>It’s a complete
and utter lie, one in which Seattleites continually repeat to ourselves
so that we will eventually believe it.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes"> 
</span>During the month of June, 15 of the 30 days had a temperature \>
75 degrees. In July, it’s 21 out of 31 days that are expected to be \>
75 degrees. Of those, 16 of the 31 days are expected to be \> 80
degrees.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">  </span>Any apartment exposed
to this heat for fourteen hours (sunset is around 9pm) heats up like
it's under a magnifying glass.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes"> 
</span>I’m not exaggerating here; I cannot be comfortable without a
fan on me during the day and to go to sleep in our apartment. It’s
sticky, our windows only open a solid 7” and we face west which
maximizes our exposure to sunlight. Last night, the only way I fell
asleep was by putting a bag of ice wrapped in a towel underneath me.
It's that bad.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">  </span></span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial">The weird part is that
every feels the desperate need to propagate the myth. Some
examples:</span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial">[BGold](http://blogs.msdn.com/bgold)
said that you don’t need air conditioning, yet a couple of weeks ago I
was at his apartment around midnight and I was sweating it was so hot.
He had his porch door wide open but it wasn’t enough. When I asked him
how he could possibly go to sleep in this heat, he did finally admit
that he uses an oscillating fan on his bed. Since when have fans and
open windows been a good thing? You end up getting insects (especially
at night as they are attracted to the light), in the city you hear
almost constant street noise and you’ve also opened yourself up to
theft. Examples:</span>

  - 
    
    <div class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt">
    
    <span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>
    
    *It's common sense to keep doors and windows closed and locked, but
    "the basics are the things that people mess up the most," says
    Seattle Police Officer Duane Fish. His department recently arrested
    two burglars with more than 100 break-ins between them. "**Their
    primary method of getting into the home was an open door or
    window**," Fish says.*
    [Link](http://origin.bankrate.com/brm/news/advice/20020904a.asp)
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt">
    
    <span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>
    
    December 20 - Burglary - *“Suspect **entered a residence through an
    open window**.“*
    [Link](http://www.enterprisenewspapers.com/archive/2003/1/3/2003121412097.cfm)
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt">
    
    <span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>
    
    *December 21 -* Vandalism *- “The suspect **entered the residence
    through a window** and left after seeing the victim.“*
    [Link](http://www.enterprisenewspapers.com/archive/2003/1/3/2003121412097.cfm)
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt">
    
    <span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>
    
    December 26 - Burglary - *“Suspect arrested after **entering a
    residence by climbing through a window**.“*
    [Link](http://www.enterprisenewspapers.com/archive/2003/1/3/2003121412097.cfm)
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt">
    
    <span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>
    
    June 29 - ***Jeanette and Jon Elkins are warning their Kent
    neighborhood to keep windows closed at night, despite the hot
    weather**....The Elkins are speaking from experience. They left the
    rear window of their home open Monday night. At 2:30 in the morning,
    they found out why police cautioned against leaving windows open
    without stops or wooden dowels to keep the opening so small a person
    could not climb through. At that time, while one of their two
    daughters was already in bed with them, a noise woke up Jeanette.
    She told KOMO 4 News she thought: " 'Who's there? Is that our other
    daughter coming in?' And then I realized he was hooded. And I went,
    'Oh my God\!' Like, 'Jon, someone's in our house\! ' " *
    [Link](http://www.komo-am.com/news/story_m.asp?ID=31955)
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt">
    
    <span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>
    
    July 6 - Arson - *“Police and fire personnel responded to the 5000
    block of Brooklyn Avenue Northeast, where **someone had thrown a lit
    firecracker through an open window** and onto a bed.“*
    [Link](http://www.zwire.com/site/tab8.cfm?brd=855&pag=460&dept_ID=520932)
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 0pt">
    
    <span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>
    
    July 13 - Burglary - *“...The **suspect had entered through an open
    bedroom window**.“*
    [Link](http://www.zwire.com/site/tab8.cfm?brd=855&pag=460&dept_ID=520932)
    
    <span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>
    
      
    
    </div>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Another friend who
shall remain anonymous repeated the air conditioning
myth.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">  </span>Luckily his fiancé was
there to nudge him towards telling the truth and to stop perpetuating
the myth.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">  </span>Besides having all
their windows open, they have a ceiling fan installed in the bedroom
that they keep running all the time.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes"> 
</span>His fiancé admitted to getting very warm during the evening
waking up and not being able to go back to sleep because of the hot
temperature</span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial">[BrianKel](http://blogs.msdn.com/briankel)
at least admits his place gets pretty hot and sticky and admitted that
his place ends up feeling like a sauna. I was playing Xbox Live with
Brian the other day and he mentioned that he and his roommate were
playing in the sauna and were wearing towels and were pouring water over
coals. Sadly, I know that he isn’t lying
</span><span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Wingdings; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-ascii-font-family: Arial; mso-hansi-font-family: Arial; mso-char-type: symbol; mso-symbol-font-family: Wingdings"><span style="mso-char-type: symbol; mso-symbol-font-family: Wingdings">J</span></span><span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial">I drive in these
people’s cars and they all have the air conditioning on, if you look
around during high traffic, the majority of cars are using air
conditioning to stay cool in stop and go traffic, yet, for some reason,
the need for A/C disappears when you park at home and enter your house.
It’s baffling.</span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

**The Good News**

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial">Me and the Mrs
recently bought a new house (in BrianKel’s neighborhood too) that's
currently under construction\! The first thing we asked for was air
conditioning (it doesn’t come standard in any houses in Seattle). While
we did have to pay for it, I can tell you it’s the best upgrade we got
for the house. </span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial">I can’t wait until
next summer when the outside temperature is 85 degrees and our new house
will be a chilly 55 degrees. I’ll be in a itchy wool Christmas sweater
making hot chocolate and roasting marshmallows over a nice fire and
laughing at my sweat-drenched neighbors standing in front of their
windows waiting for that breeze to come. </span>

<span style="FONT-SIZE: 10pt; FONT-FAMILY: Arial"></span>

 

</div>

</div>
