<div id="page">

# The Tough Life of a Caps Fan

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
3/1/2004 8:43:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

**\*\*\*Update x3\*\*\***

Anson Carter, who the Caps traded for Jaromir Jagr lasted a total of two
weeks in Washington before being traded to Los Angeles.  Mike Grier was
also traded to Buffalo.  The Washington Post has a good summary of all
the changes and the challenges Caps face
[**here**](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A58719-2004Mar14.html)

**** 

**\*\*\*Update x2\*\*\***

It looks like Sergei Gonchar is going to the Bruins not the Panthers and
Michael Nylander will join him...Washington Post has the story:
“[**Capitals Fire Sale
continues**](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A26424-2004Mar3.html)“

 

\*\*\***Update**\*\*\*  
Yet another player will be traded, as I said before, with all the
players cut the most offensive player on the Capitals is a defenseman -
Sergei Gonchar.  The Caps have agreed to trade to a division rival, the
[Florida
Panthers](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A24440-2004Mar2.html).

 

 

 

I just ran across [Harry Pierson’s post on Ted
Leonsis](http://devhawk.net/PermaLink.aspx?guid=2af18ecb-e381-4f5c-bb51-f469920019a5),
the owner of the Washington Capitals, and I completely agree with
him.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">  </span>It’s tough being a
Washington Capitals fan, it really is.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes"> 
</span><span style="mso-spacerun: yes"> </span>The Capitals this year
seem bent on self destruction. This year alone they traded Jaromir Jagr,
their \#1 goal scorer in ’02-03 season, Robert Lang, their \#2 goal
scorer in ’02-’03 (and when traded was the \#1 scorer in the entire
NHL), Peter Bondra, an original Washington draftee, who finished scoring
in the top 5 every season since 1994, and set **franchise records** for
points (825), goals (472), power-play goals (137), power-play
goals/season (22), game-winning goals (73), shorthanded goals (32)
short-handed goals/season (6), game-winning goals (13), hat tricks (19),
hat tricks/season (4), goals/game (5),
<span style="mso-spacerun: yes"> </span>and goals/period (4).

 

Maybe as a Caps fan since my early teens I shouldn’t be surprised,
considering that the Capitals bumpy history is lined with horrible
trades decided out of stupidity or greed. Below are just some examples,
I could go on and on...

  - Mike Gartner –Long time Washington Capital, traded, goes onto become
    500+ goal scorer and a member of the Hall of Fame
  - Dino Ciccarelli – 500+ goal scorer, traded to Detroit 92-93, becomes
    their \#2 goal scorer behind Steve Yzerman.
  - Scott Stevens – Washington draftee, traded, goes on to win multiple
    Stanley Cups including being named the playoff MVP in 2000
  - Jim Carey wins top goaltender award in 95-96, traded to Boston the
    next year.
  - Jason Allison, Washington draftee that starts with the Caps in ’96,
    traded to Boston, only to become their \#1 scorer in for two
    consecutive seasons.

I bet the New Jersey Devils have paid for Scott Stevens high salary
*just* by hawking replica jerseys for $75/pop.  Note to Leonsis: Just
like movie theaters you don't make money off of selling regular-joe
tickets, you make money off of the premium services like box seats,
concessions and logo-ware.  No one will go see your team if you don't
have a star.  The Washington ~~Bullets~~ Wizards sold out almost every
game because Michael Jordan was playing even though the team didn't even
make the playoffs.  

 

Maybe this is all part of the Caps plan to get back to their roots. In
the club’s first inaugural season, 1974-75, the Washington Capitals had
the worst record in the history of
hockey.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">  </span>This season they are
tied for fourth worst in the league.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes"> 
</span>Their \#1 scorer plays defense. My only solace is that Joe Gibbs
is back as the head coach of the Redskins and the skins may actually
finish with a winning record...

 

</div>

</div>
