<div id="page">

# Upcoming Events

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
1/14/2004 10:09:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

This week's been super busy, and I'm probably not going to have any free
or personal time.  I won't even attempt to list my To-Do list here, but
I'm really, really busy.

You may be interested in hearing about some upcoming developer events.

[**Middle East Developer's
Conference 2004**](http://www.microsoft.com/middleeast/egypt/english/events/MDC2004.asp)
(Jan 24-27, Cairo, Egypt) - I'll be presenting two sessions on Visual
Studio Whidbey including ASP.NET and C\#.  BillG is doing the keynote so
it should be a great event to attend. I've also never been to Egypt and
I've heard it is absolutely beautiful.  

[**Developer
Days 2004**](http://www.microsoft.com/seminar/devdays2004/default.mspx)
- This is a multi-city worldwide tour event which promises to be
exciting. There are two tracks covering Smart Client development and Web
development, and both will have good coverage of security fundamentals. 
In fact the web track is actually based on the eWeek [OpenHack
contest](http://www.eweek.com/article2/0,3959,741388,00.asp) \[Aside- no
one broke MS security during OpenHack\]. We will also be showing off
some of the new features available in Visual Studio Whidbey, so if you
didn't get a chance to hit PDC, this is the next best thing.  Plus, all
attendees will receive a copy of Visual Studio “Whidbey” (the PDC build)
just for attending, and a CD with all of the sample code.

[**Imagine Cup 2004**](http://www.imaginecup.com) - The Imagine Cup web
site is now up and running\!  For those of you who may not know, Imagine
Cup is a contest open to all students to share their brilliant ideas
with the world.  The Imagine Cup has expanded this year to include the
following categories: [Software
Design](http://www.imaginecup.com/softwaredesign.aspx),
[Algorithm](http://www.imaginecup.com/algorithm.aspx) design, [short
film](http://www.imaginecup.com/shortfilm.aspx), and
[rendering](http://www.imaginecup.com/rendering.aspx).  You can even
submit entries for the last three categories online.  This article has
some good info on  [last year's contest
winner](http://www.reachlive.net/news/2003/jul/news_02a.htm) (who won
over 100K student entries). If the [red vs
blue](http://www.redvsblue.com/) guys are students, they should submit
their best entry for short film :)

Another cool feature on the Imagine Cup site is the interactive
[Worldview](http://www.imaginecup.com/worldwide.aspx) that let's you
zoom-in to see where the Software Design Invitationals will be held.

 

 

</div>

</div>

<div id="page">

# Upcoming Events

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
4/14/2004 8:29:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

**VS Connections (April 18-21)**  
Is anyone going to [VS Connections](http://www.vsconnections.com) in
Orlando next week? I'll be there, it should be lots of fun.  I'm trying
to cook up some fun demos for my talk on What's new with the C\# IDE.

**Bay.NET User Group (April 27)  
**I'll also be speaking at the Bay.NET user group on what's coming in
C\# 2.0 thanks to all-around good guy and C\# rock star, [Juval
Lowy](http://www.longhornblogs.com/jlowy).

**[TechEd](http://www.microsoft.com/teched/) US (May 24-27)  
**I'll be there, and I won't be speaking which should give me ample time
to actually enjoy the event.  I'm always afraid to party
too hard anywhere near Southern California.  My fear is I'll   wake up
in Tijuana with unspeakable piercings, no money, and another wife. Well,
maybe Tijuana won't be so bad after all :)

**San Diego .NET User Group (during TechEd, Tuesday May 25)  
**Tim Huckaby, rock star and probably the accomplice who'll drive me to
Tijuana, runs the San Diego .NET user group, and
[Anson](http://blogs.msdn.com/ansonh) and
[Joe](http://blogs.msdn.com/joen/) are planning on presenting. 

**[TechEd Europe](http://www.microsoft.com/europe/teched/) - Amsterdam
(June 29 - July 2)  
**This should be a really fun time, I'll probably be doing two C\#
sessions (TBD). I haven't been to Amsterdam since I was in my early
teens, and that was with the parental units so this trip should be a bit
different.

 

</div>

</div>
