<div id="page">

# Visual Studio 2005 = "Whidbey"

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
3/13/2004 2:37:00 AM

-----

<div id="content">

  
I'm probably the last person to blog about this, but in case you didn't
know, Whidbey will officially be Visual Studio 2005.

**Date Slip**  
I wanted to take a second to respond to [**Frans
Bouma**](http://weblogs.asp.net/fbouma/archive/2004/03/11/87836.aspx) and
other bloggers who are “hooked“ on Whidbey and want to know why they
can't have Whidbey now.  Yes, the next release of Visual Studio will be
a major release with lots of features that developers have been asking
for and it will make your life easier.  The problem is that you've only
seen a partial view of what's coming down the road.  The version of
Visual Studio “Whidbey“ that was given to attendees at PDC was a
technology preview.  It is **<span class="underline">not feature
complete</span>**. I think you can only really start to understand the
scope of everything that Microsoft will be offering in Visual Studio
2005 by Beta 1.  Until then, your basically looking at a car in an
assembly line saying how you need the comfortable seat now, but we
haven't welded doors on the car yet, we haven't done safety tests, and
there's no turbo fuel injection (PS: you'll love the sunroof).  To the
specific point about Yukon delaying Visual Studio, I can assure you that
the developer division isn't just sitting around waiting for Yukon to be
ready, there is **plenty** of work to do, I just can't tell you about it
until Beta 1 :)

I may be pointing out the obvious here, but I think that it's hard to
judge timeframes for very large software projects and Microsoft doesn't
do the best job at it.  Features change and evolve, as do requirements,
interdependencies, performance criteria, and much more.  We have lots of
smart people doing their best to manage this and we don't always make
the exact software deadline.  To give another recent example,
Windows Server 2003 had around **five** different ship dates and about
the same number of name changes.  I'll do my best on keeping the name
changes minimal:)

**Go Live license?  
**If you are interested in deploying Whidbey pre-launch, I can't say for
certain, but we might redo the Go Live license system that we did with
the VS 2002 launch.  I don't know the details on this (if any 'softie
does, please reply), but when I do find out, I'll make sure to blog it.

**Visual Studio Service Packs**  
WRT your point about why there have been no service packs for VS, first
realize that we have several hotfixes up at
[**http://support.microsoft.com**](http://support.microsoft.com/) if you
have a particular problem to address, feel free to contact me
directly. I think you should understand the context of what's going
inside Microsoft as there has been a lot of work in making Windows XP
Service Pack 2 a great service pack with a focus on security.  As you
can imagine, there are obviously lots of tie-ins and dependencies on the
work being done in this service pack that would affect the developer
division.  You can read all about the [**developer
implications**](http://msdn.microsoft.com/security/productinfo/XPSP2/default.aspx) of
Windows XP SP2 here. I don't work on the Visual Studio servicing side
(anyone who does chime in here), so I'm just giving you an educated
guess here, but since there are specific developer implications for
Windows XP SP2, the VS team would need to factor/depend on those changes
for any future Visual Studio service packs.

**Does Microsoft Give Access too Early?  
**After reading these posts on Whidbey and in thinking about
the backlash on Longhorn (too much info too early), it occured to me
that maybe its not such a good idea to give the broad developer
community early access to code. I'm not saying this because we don't
value everyone's opinion, but because it might be dangerous to set such
high expectations.  What happens when you see a great feature and you
see that it won't be available until the next release?  Some features
you like may or may not make Whidbey, it's a technical preview, we
really cannot give any guarantee as to what the final product will look
like.  As Jay points out, we're even starting to give [**developers
interim
builds**](http://weblogs.asp.net/jaybaz_ms/archive/2004/02/21/77796.aspx) in
a continuous effort to make Microsoft more open to developers.  I would
assume this would be a good thing, but there is risk in this
approach. The risk is that we over-promise and under-deliver which
leads to developers being angry, which is the exact opposite of what
we're trying to achieve.  For example, Beta 1 of the original PDC builds
of what became Visual Studio.NET 2002 had E\&C support for VB, but due
to the amount of work required to get it right, it didn't make VS '02 or
'03 and is only now being be added to Whidbey.  Maybe the other problem
is *schedule* expectations. We announce software ship dates, and then
have to change them, potentially multiple times.  If we hadn't
specifically said that Whidbey would be released at the end of 2004,
would that have been better?  I don't know the right answer to this, but
if you have feedback, let me know.

 

 

</div>

</div>
