<div id="page">

# Visual Studio Express - Happy One Year Anniversary\!

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
11/7/2006 6:27:35 PM

-----

<div id="content">

Updated to include the new SkinCraft Light free control (see below) and
the correct RTM Express download count which is actually **7.5
million\!** 

 

 

[![](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/cupcake.jpg)](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/cupcake1.jpg)

sniff, sniff, they grow up so quickly\!

 

One year ago today, Steve Ballmer was on-stage announcing our official
launch of Visual Studio Express to the world...it seems like just
yesterday\!  Since launch, we've had over **~~6.8~~ 7.5
million completed** Express downloads\!

**New Benefits for Registered Express Customers**

As a thank you to our loyal registered Express customers, today we are
announcing a [new set of
benefits](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/register/) for being
a registered Express user
including:

 

**![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/images/express/BubbleBarSmall.jpg)  
DevComponents BubbleBar** — [DevComponents
BubbleBar](http://www.devcomponents.com/dotnetbar/BubbleBar.html) is a
unique tabbed toolbar control with magnifying / bubbling buttons for
your Windows Forms available for **free**
([animation](http://www.devcomponents.com/dotnetbar/img/BubbleBar.gif)).  
  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/images/express/CareerBuilderLogo.jpg)

**CareerBuilder** — [CareerBuilder](http://www.careerbuilder.com/), the
nation's largest job board, is providing special discounts on resume
services like Resume Upgrade (25% off) and Resume Direct (25%
off).

  
  
 [![](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/makeLogo_url_thumb3.jpg)](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/makeLogo_url5.jpg)

**MAKE Magazine** — Known as the "bible of the Tech DIY movement," [MAKE
Magazine](http://makezine.com/magazine/) is offering an exclusive
discount on a subscription (5 issues for the price of
4).

  
 

[![](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/make_controller_thumb.jpg)](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/make_controller2.jpg)

**Make Controller Discount** - The [Make Controller
Kit](http://makezine.com/controller/) by [Make
Magazine](http://www.makezine.com/) and
[MakingThings](http://www.makingthings.com/), is a hardware kit that
allows you to create .NET applications that incorporate sensors, motors,
lights, and other physical devices. The board interfaces easily to your
PC via Ethernet or USB to create applications that extend beyond the
desktop and into the real world.

  
  
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/images/express/KAMLogo.gif)

**KAM Train Tools** — Train Tools software is a set of tools for the
operation of your Model Train Layout and provides a [software
developer's
kit](http://www.trainpriority.com/visualstudio/visualstudioexpress.aspx)
designed for use with Visual Studio Express. Use the tutorials and learn
how write your own Model Train Control program in just minutes\! ($10
off).  

  
[![](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/HA_logo_thumb2.gif)](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/HA_logo4.gif)   
**Intermatic** - Receive a rebate of up to $25 off the purchase of the
[Wireless Home Control Starter Kit](http://www.homesettings.com/)
featuring the Z-Wave SDK to personalize your home
experience.

[![](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/sc_150x60_2_thumb%5B1%5D.jpg)](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/sc_150x60_2%5B3%5D.jpg)

**SkinCrafter** - [SkinCrafter Light](http://www.skincrafter.com/)
provides you an easy (no coding required) way of adding skins to your
Windows Forms.  With a simple adding of a control to your form and
selecting the skin, you can enjoy a new and unique look with to your
application.

  
 

This is in addition to the **existing** Express registration benefits
like:  
  

![](http://www.componentscience.net/Portals/0/WebPlanner/WebPlanner_tn.png)   
**ComponentScience WebPlanner 2005 -** The scheduling component for
ASP.NET 2.0.  [WebPlanner 2005 for
ASP.NET 2.0](http://www.componentscience.net/Products/WebPlanner/tabid/61/Default.aspx)
is a fully functional scheduling component for day, week, month and
timeline rendering. WebPlanner provides drag and drop features and is
compatible with Internet Explorer, FireFox, Mozilla and Opera. It also
includes a MonthPlanner control as an extra bonus.

 

![](http://www.graphicsserver.com/images/Wizard30ScreenCap.PNG)   
**Graphics Server .NET** - Experience Interactive Chart Design with
[Graphics Server .NET](http://www.graphicsserver.com/dotnet/index.aspx).
Learn how fast and easy it is to design a chart and integrate it with
your Visual Studio 2005 application with our new Interactive Designer.
Professional looking results, fast development and reasonable prices for
both Win and Web Forms.

 

![](http://www.nsoftware.com/img/ipwado.jpg)   
**/n software IP\*Works\! ADO.NET Data Provider** - Free single machine
license of [IP\*Works\! ADO.NET Data
Provider](http://www.nsoftware.com/ipworks/ado/). With IP\*Works\! you
can use SQL queries and data objects built on the .NET Framework to
easily access data for Internet development. Implements a standard
Microsoft .NET Data Provider for accessing Email (POP, IMAP, SMTP), News
(NNTP), and
RSS.

 

[![](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/corbis.jpg)](https://msdnshared.blob.core.windows.net/media/TNBlogsFS/BlogFileStorage/blogs_msdn/danielfe/WindowsLiveWriter/VisualStudioExpressHappyOneYearAnniversa_D958/corbis1.jpg)   
**Corbis Images** - An assortment of 250 **royalty-free** images from
[Corbis](http://www.corbis.com) for inclusion in your web sites and
applications.

 

![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/images/build_webdev.gif)
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/images/build_vb.gif)
![](http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/images/build_csharp.gif)

**Build A Program Now\! Microsoft Press eBooks** - These fun and highly
visual guides from [Microsoft
Press](http://www.microsoft.com/learning/books/devtools/vs2005/) walk
you from start-to-finish through a complete programming project.

 

**Download Now  
**If you've already registered any Visual Studio Express product, simply
logon to [Connect](http://connect.microsoft.com/) and select **My
Participation...Visual Studio 2005 Registration Benefits Portal** to
access your benefits. If you haven't registered Visual Studio Express,
simply [download](http://msdn.com/express) and click Help...Register
Product... to gain access to these benefits.

 

**Other Benefits  
**We want to keep making registration a benefit to you and, in the
future, we're looking to add even more discounts, components and
valuable content for Express customers. If you have ideas or suggestions
for what would be a good registration benefit for Express users, feel
free to respond to this post.

**** 

**Happy One Year Anniversary Visual Studio Express\!\!**

</div>

</div>
