<div id="page">

# Vote Today For Your Favorite Coding4Fun Redesign

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
9/20/2006 2:19:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

As I mentioned in my [previous
post](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2006/08/10/694792.aspx), we
are redesigning Coding4Fun and we want \*you\* to help choose the new
design.

**Redesign Summary**  
The current content on Coding4Fun is disorganized and primarily
structured by author or event. This makes it frustrating to find the
content on the site. For Coding4Fun v2, we are redesigning the site
content into four major categories driven off the Coding4Fun blog:

  - **Windows** - Utilities, Sidebar gadgets, etc
  - **Web** - Web apps, mashups,etc
  - **Gaming** - 2D games, graphics mods, etc
  - **Hardware** - Robotics, web cams, etc

Content is \*not\* mutually exclusive so that an article like [Dance,
Dance
Revolution](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/makerfaire/demos/default.aspx)
which would be in both the hardware and game categories. In addition
we'll have a "News" and an "Events" category, the former being a blog
with aspirations to be half as good as the [Makezine
blog](http://www.makezine.com/blog/) (kudos to Phil).

**Feedback  
**Feedback on our design is open to anyone, feel free to respond
directly in the [comments
here](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2006/09/20/763916.aspx#comments).
Make your feedback constructive, and be as specific as possible about
what aspects of the design you do/don't like. You can of course mix and
match feedback, like part of design 1 and part of design 2. The better
your feedback, the more likely we are to act on it.

**Popularity contest  
**Yes, this is a shameless popularity contest (most popular design wins)
although there are no rules, be nice and don't vote more than once.
Deadline Since we have a lot of cool content just waiting for the
redesign to finish, the deadline for voting will be one week, by
Wednesday September 27th for this round of feedback. Future deadlines
for the sub-pages (like the gaming, and Web catgories) may be even
shorter so stay tuned\! ****

**The Designs  
**The designs below are \*conceptual\* designs for the Coding4Fun home
page (level1). In total, there are six different designs listed in
alphabetical order. Click on the design thumbnails below to open the
full-size image.  
  
**Design \#1 - Clean Orange  
![](http://www.danfernandez.com/C4F_Design/CleanOrange_thumb.jpg)**

**** 

**Design \#2 - Comic**  
**![](http://www.danfernandez.com/C4F_Design/comic_thumb.jpg)**

**** 

**Design \#3 - Glass  
![](http://www.danfernandez.com/C4F_Design/glass_thumb.jpg)**

**** 

**Design \#4 - illo**  
**![](http://www.danfernandez.com/C4F_Design/illo_thumb.jpg)**

**** 

**Design \#5 -
Metal**  
[**![](http://www.danfernandez.com/C4F_Design/metal_thumb.jpg)**](http://www.danfernandez.com/C4F_Design/metal_level1.png)

**** 

**Design \#6 - Vista**  
[**![](http://www.danfernandez.com/C4F_Design/vista_thumb.jpg)**  
  
](http://www.danfernandez.com/C4F_Design/vista_level1.png)[Vote
Now\!](http://blogs.msdn.com/danielfe/archive/2006/09/20/763916.aspx#comments)

</div>

</div>
