<div id="page">

# Work hard, play hard

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
7/1/2003 7:12:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

"Work hard, play hard" is my mantra (and the mantra of most people at
MS), but it's pretty damn exhausting after a while. I haven't been able
to blog since last week, and it's simply because I've been busy
\***all\*** the time. This weekend, for example, I went back home to DC
for a friend's wedding, and didn't go to sleep before 5am any day there,
and every second I was awake I was busy. I had a great time, but it was
exhausting.  
I arrived back in Seattle on Sunday night to read 150+ emails (no joke)
before going to sleep around 2am. On Monday, I worked until 7pm and then
ran over to play in my [roller hockey
league's](http://www.arenasports.net/index.php?sw_tab=2&&sw_ltab=a&&action=hockey/index)
All-Star game. I just joined this league (thanks to
[EdKaim](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/edkaim)), being a newcomer to
Seattle and all, and it's been a lot of fun so far. Our team won the
All-Star game 8-6, and I assisted on three goals in the effort. Woohoo\!
After the game I got home at about 9:30pm, ordered dinner and started
working again. By the time I caught up on email it was 2am. A solid six
hours of sleep and I was back to work. I have a hockey game tonight too,
and I won't get back home until about 12:30am, exhausted, hungry, and
ready to pass out. I'll get to sleep by 2am, and six hours later I'll be
getting up for work.  Caffeine is my friend, and these [mad
scientists](http://www.newscientist.com/news/news.jsp?id=ns99993851)
must be stopped\<g\>.

**My Hockey History**  
I've been playing hockey for a while, starting with street hockey with
friends in neighborhood tennis courts and cul-de-sacs to roller hockey
in the now defunct SESARA out of Wheaton Ice rink, playing in the 18 and
over league when I was a scrawny, underweight 17 year old. I then played
and ran the [Univ. of Miami](http://www.miami.edu) roller hockey
[club](http://www.miami.edu/wellness-clubs/roller_hockey/about_us.htm)
league. As a geek, I created a scoring and scheduling system for the
league built in Access, and had player and team statistical reports
exported to our school's web site. I also played for Miami's team in
what is now the [CRHL](http://www.crhl.net). In the summers both during
and after college I played in SESARA which became the [Gardens Ice
House](http://www.thegardensicehouse.com/hockey/inline_league.htm)
league playing for the good old Washington Whale, (the team I had
started with as a 17 year old but at that time was called the Fighting
Ferrets) and also started playing for the
[Chargers](http://www.chargershockey.com) in both ice and roller hockey.
Good times\! I'll have to bring my hockey gear next time I visit DC to
get my game on.

Microsoft has a charity [ice hockey
team](http://www.mshockeychallenge.com/default.asp) that regularly beats
Sun, Apple and other tech companies but my dream is to some day play on
the team that beats them on wheels.  
  
I definitely prefer playing roller hockey to exercising in a gym.
There's something very gerbil-esque about using a treadmill or a
stairmaster that I can't seem to get past. I also can't seem to get past
the lack of accomplishment or completion one feels by picking up a heavy
object 12 times only to put it back down again. I must be missing
something :)

 Work hard, play hard, when does one find the time to ***rest*** hard?

</div>

</div>
