<div id="page">

# You down with MGB? Yeah you know me Part 1

[Dan Fernandez -
MSFT](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/profile/Dan%20Fernandez%20-%20MSFT)
7/23/2003 9:38:00 PM

-----

<div id="content">

Please forgive me for not blogging more, but I've been horribly sick,
really busy and travelling.  I'm only now \*starting\* to catch up on
e-mail and remove my DayQuil dependency. 
[Keller](http://blogs.gotdotnet.com/briankel) is also sick, and he was
nice enough to pick me up some (generic brand) DayQuil last week.  I
personally couldn't tell the difference, but I personally
recommend DayQuil if you ever are feeling horribly sick and can't miss
work.  Surprisingly, DayQuil only has a 3.5/5 rating (based on 46
votes) on
[rateitall](http://www.rateitall.com/item.asp?i=08B9EF38-A4FE-4199-AAFC-6B117E70924C). 
I would've expected better.  Visit rateitall for ratings on just about
everything.... 

I've been in New Orleans since Wednesday night of last week for
Microsoft's annual field meeting called MGB (Microsoft Global
Briefing).  This is where everyone who works for Microsoft in the
field, across the world, comes to meet and learn the latest sales and
technical content.  Maybe I've been jaded by playing too much Halo or
[Hitman](http://www.xbox.com/hitman2silentassassin/default.htm?cs_catalog=cat%2dus),
but as I was walking past a room, I noticed a session with the words
"Execution Framework" in it and I assumed it had to do with gaming ;)

Keller (J\#) , Flores (VB), and I presented on language and tool futures
yesterday, and our session went well.  Unfortunately, everything's MS
confidential, but based on the audiences reaction, we're adding the
right features to VS Whidbey and developers will be happy.  I also
presented C++ as Nick Hodapp the Product Manager for C++ had a prior
commitment.  I got to demo Vertigo's Quake 2, which has to be one of the
more amusing things to do in a session.  Vertigo ported Quake 2 (Note:
GPL) from C to C++ and compiled it in both managed and unmanaged code,
by adding the "/clr" switch.  They also added a heads-up display (HUD)
written using C++ Managed Extensions that demonstrates how you
can integrate .NET Framework features into a C++ application.  Cool
stuff\!  
You can find more information about the Quake 2 port
[here](http://www.vertigosoftware.com/Quake2.htm), or download it
[here](http://www.notouchdeploy.net/quake2/Quake%20II%20.NET.msi).  

I'll write more about this trip later\!

</div>

</div>
